all right welcome back to another episode of the waveform podcast we're your hosts i'm marquez and i'm andrew and in today's episode we're going to bring on a special guest we have quinn from snazzy labs he's going to be joining me to talk about tesla's full self-driving beta the rollout how it's going this new thing with the safety score in the app and how they're deciding who gets it first despite who's already paid for it we'll be getting on that in a little bit but first andrew you wanted to rant about something for a little bit i did yeah yeah um so like obviously really excited for quinn to come on i think this whole full self-driving rollout's kind of interesting like actually really interesting there's a lot going way more than just full self-driving but anyways we can't not talk about amazon astro uh yes um the robot yeah he is so amazon had an event and they released a couple different things if you missed it you didn't miss very much but one thing they did release is called astro and we have to talk about it mostly because like if you search for azure right now the top headline is a verge article called amazon astro is terrible and will throw itself downstairs developers reportedly claim i can't believe this it's so that's one of the brutal i think that's my favorite headline of 2021 so far yeah for sure so we can't not talk about this okay so we've done a video on uh robots in the homes before i did a video all about the tesla bot which is a totally different like ballpark of what it actually is trying to be but the idea is it's an assistant robot that helps you around in your house so amazon is making one it's called astro it's about two feet all it looks kind of like a screen on wheels basically yeah it's got eyes on the screen it's got a little periscope camera that can telescope up out of the top to look around um so basically it basically acts like a a an ipad on wheels if you will yeah the main thing here is it has wheels and also if if you're an audio listener and you're taking that description marquez and thinking said and and you're
thinking like hmm this doesn't sound like it makes a lot of sense you're probably right you're you're pictionary exactly what it is it's very basic i mean this reminds
me of basically it reminds me of every
robot that you see at ces which is like
a little
like
rectangle on wheels basically that rolls
around has maybe like a single purpose
and there's a couple things
that's basically like you said it has
two main wheels on the front it looks
like it has like a little rotating wheel
on the back so it can you know it's
mostly driving it can pivot yeah and
then it has like yeah the screen coming
off the top of it that can kind of flex
up and down and turn left and right a
little bit and it looks like the screen
mostly just shows eyes which to make it
look like a
like little creature almost right to
sort of anthropomorphize it a little bit
uh it's going to come out this year this
is the important part that everyone
uh likes to talk about the most is it's
going to be about a thousand dollars for
this early
data launch early launch price for it
and then it'll be about 1400 1500 bucks
yeah after that so it's real it's coming
out you'll be able to buy one yes what
does it do
a couple things really yeah i think
there's a lot of questions like why
would you ever want this i think the
easiest way to go about this is i wrote
down a bunch of ways amazon claimed to
use it and then let's just go through it
one by one and think of yeah either
would ever use it that way yeah there's
a demo video on amazon's youtube channel
i highly suggest watching it it's like
two minutes long it's really funny it's
it's almost like a futuristic like
cringy uh
interpretation of what the future may
look like if we never got
if we were imagining the future 20 years
ago i feel like exactly maybe it would
feel futuristic but um worth watching
for sure yeah um so let's see let's go
through some of the things that amazon
claims will do so number one we have
monitor and kind of home security so it
would link up with your like ring
protection uh subscription and can you
know kind of patrol around your house
use its cameras if it notices anything
different it can send you alerts if it
notices people that it doesn't recognize
it can send you alerts but basically
just
instead of having a bunch of different
security cams now you have one thing
rolling around all night right so the
key distinction here is it's on wheels
it is technically mobile and can move
around yes but obviously it can't go up
and down stairs or even i think there is
a line on their site about like if you
have a floor interruption of over three
centimeters it will not go over it so it
needs to be
in that one area of your house
but this is i think the actual area
where i could see it being the most
useful is instead of having three
security cameras in three different
rooms at three different doors you have
one and it can respond to sounds if it
hears something around the house it can
drive over to it
i'm i guess kind of the thing is is i
could buy three security cameras for
a fraction of the cost of this thing
which is like where i kind of see the
issue with that and
the three centimeter floor separator
like separating floors is super common i
i mean i live in a ranch and we have one
room that has two stairs that you have
to go down into it which goes to our
main door uh we have multiple floor
separators there's carpet there's
hardwood there's tile
i don't know how well it would go on all
those and that's in a ranch a lot of
people live in two-story houses where
there's
now half of the houses yeah i guess you
put it on the ground floor where someone
could get in yeah that would make the
most sense but okay it does more than
just security cameras though so what is
the next they also say for keeping tabs
on elderly people or
elderly or young family members um
technically true yeah kind of i mean
if you wanted to pay attention to your
kids i don't know maybe i could kind of
see this here where
your kids are getting to that age where
maybe you're not sure if you want to
leave them home alone and now you have
something you can keep an eye on them
or elderly again an elderly family
member maybe they fall down and it
notices that but again a security camera
in every room would still probably be
cheaper and just as efficient here the
other thing is
this is a it's a camera it's an alexa
it's a it's microphones
you can just get an alexa with a screen
and put it in a room
so the difference here being it's on
wheels and can do some unique things
like walk from room to room and pop up a
periscope camera follow people around
that's one of the things in the video
hey
a word follow me and it follows you to
the next room that's like kind of a neat
bonus but something that most of the
time you're probably not going to use so
here's the thing all the i have two
things here about that involve following
one i kid you not it actually says this
it can follow you around to play
podcasts or music okay
do you would could you ever see yourself
saying like hey astro i'm listening to
this podcast please follow me around the
house why i do different things or would
you put on a pair of headphones i would
either use a speaker and turn it off
just turn it in the middle of the room
or yeah i would use my headphones okay
um and then the other one it makes a
little more sense but video chat it can
follow you around and actually they said
kind of like facebook portal or kind of
like center stage i think yes now is it
following you with the periscope camera
or are you talking to people
that's what i was imagining is because
like you're uh oh yeah it's a good idea
it's gonna be this nice little camera
that follows me around literally in
retro check we had a camera that does
this where it was a robot on wheels and
you would say i think it was g but
whatever it was it said follow me and
i'd walk around and it had this sickest
video of the back of my knees yeah as i
walked around it would just keep up with
the back of my knees my heels would
always be in the middle of the frame and
uh it wasn't the most useful video so i
imagine this would point up probably pop
out the camera to eye level hopefully if
like you really want to feel powerful
over the people you're video chatting
with looking down have them feel like an
ant all the time yeah then i could kind
of see this but
again i just i don't see the purpose of
that just
use your phone use facetime stand still
when you're video chatting with someone
yeah i'm not totally sure about that um
so it also has a little tray in the back
of it that can be you can put a
cup holder in it yeah so it can deliver
a water bottle or something to someone
in another room yeah some small items
some keys
so you're in one so think so you're in
one room yep someone goes hey pass me a
water bottle and you go i know what i'll
do you call over the robot you put it in
the robot and you send it over to the
next room yeah not up not but down some
stairs not up some stairs or floor
dividers no floor dividers but around
the corner into the next room it can
bring them that water bottle for you
hey if you've got that thousand dollars
that's that's pretty good i i can
honestly say that i don't think the
security cameras or my headphones or
anything can do that so
kudos i guess credit where credit is due
but
if you're talking about this in like
i don't i was saying when we first saw
this we saw that video of it delivering
the water bottle and we were all just
laughing it seems so ridiculous because
you still have to have someone get the
water bottle right put it in the cup
holder and then it did that terrible
thing where like it drove up to the
person on the couch looked at him
and then like spun itself around super
there was like a solid felt like two
minutes between it being like within
three feet of the person and to actually
delivering the water bottle because
that's a look and then back up yeah yeah
it does a whole maneuver to deliver the
water to you feels so unnecessary i just
now i thought what if your refrigerator
had a little docking station
and then it could vending machine uh
beverages into it straight in so then at
least i'm home alone i'm on the couch
not separated by stairs or floor
dividers and i want a soda or a beer or
a water
now that at least it will get it for me
yeah you can say astro bring me a water
and it will leave the room and come back
with the water with no other human
intervention that would be kind of neat
that would be kind of neat
this is all just in the world of like
general purpose robots where we've
talked about
well do you want a general purpose robot
that does a bunch of different things or
do you want specific robots to do one
thing well at a time and we keep
mentioning like okay i could just use
headphones or okay i could just use
security cameras so in theory this one
astro robot is replacing security
cameras headphones
a person to bring you water
a couple other small tasks like that um
as long as you want a super subpar
performance in all of those aspects
right it doesn't do any one of those
things amazingly well so that's that's
kind of astro i've never i have a roomba
by the way it's never thrown itself
downstairs
so i i will bring up this is from a vice
article of a couple of the developers
who said a few things i can go over um
yeah amazon did respond to this saying
it may it's probably outdated
information so i just want to have that
disclaimer here but i can't not talk
about it of literal developer saying
that if quote-unquote presented the
opportunity it will throw itself
downstairs
that's probably the biggest selling
point i've seen so far because i just
want to watch
the pure decision of tossing itself down
the stairs yeah um but
there there was a this vice article had
a bunch of different things from people
who worked on this that said it's
extremely fragile it has thrown itself
downstairs it's just like
they don't really see the point of it it
seems to be so
yeah the question i asked on
twitter is okay real question what is
the ideal
home robot if such a thing even exists
what what is it i don't know do you want
do you even want a robot in your home
totally fair question
curious what your thoughts are i i made
this i had this tweet just having a
picture of the tesla bot next to this
and everyone goes well one of them is a
human in a suit and doesn't exist and
the other one is real
and i'm like okay yeah no that's a
really good point the tesla bot is years
and years away super ambitious
the other is it has a price tag it's
going to come out this year
which would you rather have or would you
rather have something somewhere in
between and i think the right answer to
like a decent
home
general purpose robot is probably
somewhere in between and probably
doesn't come out right now it's probably
not very good yet
but
i i don't know that it has to get all
the way to the point where it walks on
two legs and has hands with fingers it's
probably somewhere here's my thing i
think the wheels are the biggest
limiting factor on this if somehow this
could be
exact i mean like listen
in a perfect situation like an apartment
that has perfectly smooth floors over
everywhere then this might make a little
more sense like it does do i i think the
patrolling option is neat i think being
able to control the patrolling option is
cool too so you can go see a couple
things if you're away from your house
but the fact that it has wheels just is
so limiting if this had four legs
similar to a mini spot and had
everything it did
i think it would be much much much more
reasonable it would probably cost way
more money but it would do what it's
supposed to do and be able to climb
stairs or not trip over things um
yeah but
one other thing here that i want to add
that one of the developers also said is
it
is pretty poor at detecting faces and
recognizing people um which one of the
things it's supposed to do is if it
recognizes somebody in the house that it
doesn't know it's supposed to follow it
in its patrolling right aspect except if
it's not very good at figuring that out
then it just starts following people it
doesn't know which could be you and your
home and now you just have this thing
like nipping at your heels all the time
following you around the house
it um
yeah i think like
in general to me
this just feels like
it's amazon camera in your house
tracking you looking at your face all
the time being able to have a camera
anywhere in your house unless there's
stairs or a floor divider and yeah i
think the the thing that comes back to
it is like we've watched over the years
all these companies try and attempt
various ways to get their machine
learning into your home
so we have google and we have google
assistant and now we have them
practically giving away like home minis
and it's google's using your phone and
there's all these different ways for
them to get it with ambient computing
into your home yeah uh amazon's got
alexa they maybe want a camera in your
home now and people aren't going to buy
the camera on the alexa but maybe
they'll buy astro and they'll start
getting all this information yeah and
this is just another like facebook made
that portal thing which is like okay if
you want a facebook camera in your home
there's that option yep but like this is
another way for amazon to get microphone
and cameras in your home and literally
following you around so if that's
something you'd be into you might get
some convenience back out of it which is
the goal but that's kind of the way i
see it at this point in time yeah and
amazon i believe they've had some
controversy with their ring stuff and
taking data and everything like that so
just be super careful with this i think
my biggest thing is you've mentioned
like
obviously everyone wants to put
something in our home that can hear us
and sell us stuff yeah uh
you know
generally you save on that though like
they understand that's what it is so a
google home mini or an echo dot or stuff
like that are super cheap and you're
getting it i'm paying if i missed the
launch on this i'm paying 1500
for something that
can't really do much and it's just
tracking me with a camera
potentially anywhere in my house yeah
follows you around yeah don't we'll see
i want i i would still like to try and
see like how well it works in person i
don't know if i'll bring it home but
i'll have it in the studio and just see
what it does but like how much of your
house could it cover um well one floor
it wouldn't go up or down any stairs
because you have a basement also that
you're in pretty often and yeah it has
an entryway there as well right in the
garage but it would never it would just
have to roam around the ground floor
basically so we are now going to if you
have this you're gonna have keep all
your valuables on the first floor
or
yeah
yeah basically yeah well
that's three of them that's all we know
about it so far uh yeah you can get
three of them you can get one on every
floor every floor as long as it doesn't
toss itself down yeah and then they'll
all be on one floor together
uh that's that's
astro honestly when i heard the name
astro i pictured you know the uh the
demo game for the ps5 astros world for
sure i pictured that astro robot which
is also like a little humanoid robot
with like eyes on a screen and
everything and i was like oh that would
be cool this one's more like wall-e a
little bit yeah a little more like i i
and i may have accidentally said ash
dress somewhere here but there's a
character invalid named astra oh it's
way cooler than the stupid robot though
yeah but yeah uh
pretty off topic pretty quickly but if
you don't think we gave this a fair shot
um
sorry but i don't have a lot of optimism
for this one to be we'll get one in the
studio we'll see you eventually
we'll make some sort of video i could
definitely see at least a studio video
coming out of this so uh let's take a
quick break when we come back we'll talk
with quinn and talk about full
self-driving this whole dashboard of how
tesla's watching us now and seeing
evaluating how we drive we'll come back
in a minute and talk about that
this episode of waveform is brought to
you by one dream so endless hours of
scrolling on our phones and laptops can
stop us from being the best version of
ourselves it's kind of like you have a
do not disturb sign on your forehead but
now it's time to turn off airplane mode
and start watching one dream one dream
offers endless opportunities to learn
something new with thousands of hours of
video and audio content so with
fascinating documentaries and helpful
how-to's this video streaming service
provides answers to your everyday
questions so as listeners of this
podcast you've probably questioned
things from programming mechanics to the
illusions of time so with one dream you
can scavenge across their collection of
videos covering robotics to f1 racing
science and everyday engineering with
engaged experts no one else makes
learning about everything as unique as
one dream so you can start watching one
dream out of the comfort of your own
home with roku fire stick or apple tv
devices that's a pretty good place to
learn about the wonders of the world so
right now listeners of the podcast can
get a free month of unlimited access on
a trial so just go to onedream.com
waveform that's w-o-n-d-r-i-u-m
dot com
slash waveform and start learning today
all right quinn of snazzy labs thank you
for joining me on the waveform podcast
i'm glad to be here thanks for the
invite
perfect we uh we're talking electric car
stuff a little bit on this podcast a lot
a lot on this podcast yeah and uh i was
just watching your rivian r1t experience
video you're another fellow creator and
self-proclaimed car enthusiast and you
probably have more car experience than i
do oh i don't know about that but well
i've done i've done a lot of new cars
but i've only been into cars for like
the last four to five years where okay
people who have been into cars for way
longer have a much bigger breadth of
knowledge but how was how was the r1t
you did a video about it it was amazing
i i came away super impressed i mean
obviously there's a long road ahead for
this company i mean they're just
starting production and and you know
making a good car is just start as tesla
has demonstrated
but uh the car is really good i mean the
fit and finish and the the quality
materials is is shockingly good it kind
of puts tesla to shame then again it is
in a different price bracket i mean
these cars fully loaded or 90 000 so
they're not not cheap at all yeah yeah
yeah i get i get excited sometimes by
the prototypes that they build and show
to us but then you have to remember
that's
now you have to mass produce it and you
have to actually sell it and i'm really
hoping deliveries are soon because it
seems like they're finally about to turn
the camera yeah i think they're i think
they're pumping them out so that's good
they're hoping to get through the
pre-order queue i think they said by the
end of next year which seems optimistic
but that would be awesome if they could
that would be sick and then we'd have
trucks electric trucks on the road
uh and you got an order in what color
did you go with yeah i went with the
blue that's not really the color i would
have chosen but a little birdie told me
that that's the color they're making the
most of and so if i wanted one to maybe
order that color
but the in person the yellow one i'm not
a yellow car guy but oh man it is
beautiful
interesting okay i'm gonna keep an eye
on that i don't have an order in yet but
i might have to
um
all right well we we want to talk a
little bit about what tesla's been doing
lately
um which is with their full self driving
now
full self driving in air quotes because
this has been a constant theme of like
all right coming soon more people will
have access to this beta of a feature
that maybe almost works
uh and you've been you've spoken at
length about this on twitter which i
love
um
probably since like 2015 i've been
paying or at least in the cars that i
bought paying for full soft driving i
paid extra for this and it's finally
arrived at this very interesting stage
which is
it is in beta
but it is you have to request access to
the queue
that can start using the beta yeah and
once you request access
uh you update the app you update the
software on your car
and then it begins tracking how you
drive
and assessing a safety score
and those with the highest safety score
will be the first in line
to start using the future that they paid
for already
yeah
so there's a lot to break down yeah
first of all
you know the the history of like having
paid for self-driving a long time ago
and still not having access to it how
does that how does that feel have you
paid for self-driving before and i have
a person interested in it yeah i mean
tesla's kind of changed the way that
they've done this
multiple times now at least in the u.s
this is still different in europe but
now there's only one option so it's
either everything or nothing and that
all falls under the full self-driving
umbrella which costs 10 000
or 200 bucks a month which is a lot of
money
and then when i bought my car and
presumably
when you bought your cars there were two
different packages one was called
enhanced autopilot and one was called
full self-driving and enhanced autopilot
that basically has all of the features
that tesla's can do today so the
automatic lane changes um the the
hopping on and off the highway and then
the full self-driving package didn't
really get any features until a couple
years ago when smart summon came out
where it could drive around the parking
lot and then more recently it will now
stop at
traffic lights but other than that
full self-driving doesn't really do
anything yet for the average person and
there's a lot of people that have been
agitated as you mentioned
because since 2015 they've been selling
this as a software feature and they've
kind of been promising i mean if you get
into the fine print they're probably not
liable but make no mistake i mean
they've been saying for years that this
is pretty much done
and it's not
and so there's a lot of people that are
really frustrated because they've been
waiting years for something that hasn't
come some people like you
have sold cars and purchased new ones
without ever getting value out of the
full self-driving package and then the
worst part of all and this is the part
that makes me mad for other people is
there's people that leased teslas that
paid money for full self driving on
their lease returned their car and never
realized value for any of that because
it just never happened and actually you
leased your first model s right
right yeah and i did pay for it and i
you know as you think about these
businesses it's not like businesses get
to be successful without thinking really
hard about like the bottom line and like
average value you get out of a car it's
like they know what they're doing
clearly oh yeah and
the more you know tesla might not have
ads or marketing
the way traditional manufacturers do but
at least people in the company sharing
that it seems feature complete and
it's clearly getting people to spend a
bit more on the cars despite not getting
actually more out of the car which is a
weird thing to say about a car uh in the
software department yeah um
but now we're you know despite all the
tweets about like oh three weeks away
it's one week away whatever there's
finally a button and you can finally
request it now it's real now there's
there's been um there's been a very very
limited beta of this full self-driving
out there in the world
and there's a small group of people
who's actually gotten to use it and
have made youtube videos about it and
have had like a little gopro behind the
dash cam of the wheel like showing
what's going on in the car have you seen
any of these videos in action yeah some
of these channels there's a channel in
particular i think it's ai driver
um whoever runs the channel does an
excellent job because they'll like super
impose what the car is seeing and the
visualization as they're driving i mean
there's a bunch of people that are
really creative about how do we show
what the car sees and how do we show
what it actually does and so yeah and
and the
videos are impressive i mean the car
does drive itself a lot of the time
which is pretty cool it's certainly not
bulletproof and that's where we get into
the kind of endless discussion of well
where do we draw the line of what do we
consider
you know safe enough that it can kind of
take over or what are the edge cases but
i mean i gotta hand them
props they it's a real product kind of
even though not everyone has access to
it
it's more impressive than what anyone
else is doing other than maybe
waymo but that's a whole different
technology stack and different things oh
yeah but yeah yeah no i've been
following it because i paid for it now
i'm like all right i'm ready
let me get in the beta let me let me see
what this is about because right now we
did our thousand mile road test and
that's the most i've ever used autopilot
and i was constantly like very aware of
when it would disengage and you know
getting to the exit on a highway would
get it would get like halfway down the
exit ramp it would count down 500 feet
before i disengage 200 feet before i
disengage and then it would go all right
i'm done you take the wheel
and so i see all these
videos of people using the phil
self-driving beta it's taking turns
across traffic it's stopping at stop
lights merging with all these
complicated ramps and all these things
and i'm like all right that's that's
pretty impressive
but
there is a solid amount of
uh correction happening when i'll see
like some weird
you know lines on the road or a bus stop
or a curb or something weird comes up
and they'll go oh this is a little weird
i'll just take the wheel and then yeah
re-engage it in a second
and i feel like the metric that they
they
land on the most is how many times do i
have to disengage it before i get to my
destination and that number's shrinking
and shrinking and hopefully it's the
safest when there's zero
right um and i think that's maybe why
tesla's been so cautious about this
rollout is obviously they don't want the
negative kind of press and the liability
of having their full self-driving
software crash when someone who's not
paying attention
is behind the wheel
but it is going to take a while because
even though the disengagements are low i
mean i don't know the percentage of
miles driven to disengagements occurring
but i bet it's probably 90 maybe 95 that
the car does it by itself which is
really good but if you go back years and
years and years that's when elon's
saying you know 99 is super easy it's
when you get
99.99999 and you add the nines and i
think he's always said that
they need to get to
3.9 before it's good enough and i mean
they they're not even close to 99 right
now but that's why they're doing this
right because they need to gather data
and the more people driving with the
software the more disengagements that
happen the more the system can analyze
what went wrong and how will i fix that
in the future so it's it's working
theoretically so do you have access
what's your safety score
well that's where i'm going so i your
point about like them being super
careful about who
gets access to it and who gets to use it
because obviously any mistakes it makes
are just going to get picked up and
probably make headlines so i didn't have
access to that early beta and there's
even some notes about like
apparently people who are in that super
early small group had to sign a special
nda and only be able to share certain
things and yeah that doesn't look great
but now that it's out there i figured
i'd put my myself in the queue
i have a safety score it's not high
enough i'll put it that way
um come on
what is it it was it started at like 95
i believe it's currently at 77 which is
not great that would be that's what it
is supply yeah you're passing right that
gets you a degree
passing
yeah
but the idea here is like all right so
the safer you are as a driver
um then the the more likely you are to
be admitted into this program to test
this full self-driving so i'm like all
right i guess that does make sense but
then you can actually look through and
see exactly how it's evaluating your
safety score do you have a safety score
i don't because on my model y i didn't
actually end up paying for full
self-driving okay so okay so there are
five things that it's looking at to
determine your safety score and it's
basically a proportion of how many
dangerous things happen over like per
thousand miles sure the first one is how
many forward collision warnings do you
get
the second one is how much hard braking
do you do
uh and hard braking is in excess of 0.3
g's
so uh
my you know diminishing your your
vehicle speed by 6.7 miles an hour in
one second you know it's decently
heartbreaking i feel like autopilot
frequently does hardly he's gonna say
that yeah all the time i feel like i'll
just get phantom breaking that hard yeah
um
aggressive turning so a lateral g is
greater than point four so fund right um
phone driving yeah yeah right uh unsafe
following distance so anytime you're
over 50 miles an hour and your vehicle's
headway is less than one second between
the guy in front of you good yeah
and how many forced autopilot
disengagements you have so if you don't
touch the wheel after you know 30
seconds of it bleeping at you it'll
it'll disengage autopilot and that will
ding your score
um turns out most of my score dings are
for unsafe following which i
if you're just on the highway going
highway speed
you should be further technically from
the car in front of you
and this is where i think these scores
are problematic a little bit is that's
based on what the car perceives
perceives to be accurate based on its
kind of
what it's looking for right but like if
you're in new york