all right welcome back to another
episode of the waveform podcast we're
your hosts i'm marquez and i'm andrew
and today i think we're gonna i think
we're gonna talk about the tesla bot
in every detail possible there's a lot
of there's a lot of versions of how you
can talk about the tesla bot but just
for those who haven't heard
the overall announcement that we're
addressing is tesla had an announcement
at their ai day where they announced a
humanoid robot
and now andrew is if you aren't watching
the video you can't see but he's wearing
a a helmet that makes you
makes you look like a humanoid robot
oh god yeah i feel like the daft punk
combo with the with the humanoid robot
is that's something it's something the
one helmet the gold that bunk robot
looks pretty similar to what
it's much better dress yeah yeah so i
guess let's uh let's just break down i'm
gonna start with like how we got here
yeah how we got here and what it is so
tesla makes cars tesla's been making
electric cars with
air quotes self-driving and driver
assist for a long time um
and suddenly i don't know where they
unveil that they're going to be making
this like humanoid robot and they they
show this like sleek slender like black
and white
robot with like a head and shoulders and
fingers and and feet and everything
and we're like how did we get here how
is tesla suddenly going to be a robot
company
so if you think about it if you go back
a little bit
elon
basically said on stage
tesla is essentially one of the largest
if not the largest robotics companies in
the world if you want to frame it like
this yeah and of course this is ai day
and this is you know a recruiting event
and obviously they're talking a lot
about the way they do things
in computer vision and ai
but
i can kind of see it because if you
describe a tesla as a semi-sentient
robot on wheels navigating around the
world uh using its sensors mostly
cameras yeah it kind of makes sense okay
it's one version self-driving cars is
one version of applied robotics and ai
in computer vision
so okay cool so they make a lot of they
make a bunch of these robots and they
happen to be in the forms of what we
call cars
but um
this next form factor of a robot is
going straight to
humanoid robot
and
they really landed hard on this one
sentence i kept hearing over and over
again which is that this robot will be
able to do things that are dangerous
repetitive or boring to humans
and lots of other questions were asked
by the way of them on stage like elon
and some of the fellow engineers on
stage talked about the dojo chip and
talked about the way tesla's compute
with the self-driving computer and the
way they're going to be doing super
computers and learning in the future
and a lot of they had the robot behind
them on stage the whole time so a lot of
the questions were like a model of it
yeah yeah a lot of the questions were
like hey by the way this robot's
interesting why does have to have ten
fingers like what's the biggest
challenge about this humanoid form and
like do you think this is something that
people are gonna really wanna deal with
is there an emotional component to
making it human shaped and they really
can find their answers to well we'd like
this to be able to do things that are
dangerous repetitive and boring to
humans
that's kind of all they said
and so it the rest was left up to us to
infer and look i'll be the first one to
say i'm not a robotics expert a lot of
people are like
sorry marquez you're way out of your
lane talking about robotics i don't know
i feel like i'm i'm in the tech space
and this is a tech thing and i have
feelings about it and
on top of all this we very recently did
a retro tech episode retro tech season 2
all about
humanoid robots yeah and i learned a lot
about i mean obviously people have been
around longer than me and have learned
plenty about this but about like the
history of pop culture and people's
obsessions with humanoid robots just how
many human robots you you see in like
from everything from star wars to like
the jetsons to like just everything
future facing seems to include some sort
of human shaped robot
into like why we haven't gotten
human-shaped robots today and a lot of
what we found in all this research and
all the interviewing i did and what
eventually the episode sort of
summarizes is that it turns out the
human shape for a robot
isn't necessarily the best shape for a
robot to actually do things
and this is this is probably where the
i'm going to say debate in air quotes
comes up about form factor so i'm
curious by the way you've been quiet
what do you think about tesla unveiling
a human-shaped robot and saying by the
way there's probably going to be a
prototype late next year how does that
make you feel i mean you just basically
asked the question that this whole
episode's going to be about yeah i have
a lot of thoughts on it um
i i've tried to to turn this episode
into it is going to be a rant ramble
episode um i hope you're already it is
only going to be about teslabot today
because we have a lot of thoughts on it
um
it's hard to kind of break it all down
because there's so much that they
announced by not announcing very much
yeah um like it's i think the first
thing i'm going to say is the
announcement seems extremely optimistic
and i am
very pessimistic about what they said i
think um but we're going to try and go
through both parts of here
fairly as fairly as we can and again
we're not experts um this is a lot of
just our thoughts as tech people but we
have gotten to like you said you did the
humanoid robot episode we went and saw
boston dynamics and spot and they were
that whole
day was fascinating they were talking to
all of the people at boston dynamics is
cool they've done all this atlas stuff
recently i hope we get to go back at
some point and see that um
but let's just start with let's do the
specs of what yeah human or uh tesla bot
is yeah so okay there it's again a very
preliminary thing they've given us this
like silhouette of like a sleek human
form factor or whatever maybe it looks
like that maybe not but they're saying
it'll be about five foot eight 125
pounds so actually pretty lightweight
considering all the motors and batteries
and things you need to have in a robot
it seems super light it seems like it'd
have to be some very lightweight
materials to make a computer like that
that big and that powerful 125 pounds
but that's about a human dimension 5 8
125 sure
uh it's all sleek white and it's got
this like black mesh as a head which
kind of reminds me of like a like a home
pod like as if it had like microphones
and speakers at the top but they're
hidden yeah i mean i think the best way
to describe it is it looks like a person
in a white you know those white spandex
body suits kind of like the green screen
suits and then it has almost like the
daft punk helmet it's like full black
directly over its face kind of down to
your shoulders i mean it looks so much
like it that they had this really cringy
moment at one point where they brought
this like guy dressed like it in a white
bodysuit and a black head out there's a
lot more than it's around it was a long
time it was way too long to the point
where like even elon was kind of elon
the king of terrible memes on twitter
was like cringing about it he's like all
right all right we're done uh no but
it's a it's definitely a human shape it
has 10 fingers
it has a 5 mile an hour top speed
to which elon commented you should be
able to run away from it
to which my response was how long can it
go five miles per hour because five
miles an hour on a treadmill is pretty
slow but five miles an hour chasing you
for hours with unlimited endurance is is
a different story but he makes the point
that you should be able to easily
overpower it or run away from it it's a
friendly robot
great we'll just go with that sure
uh it can lift 10 pounds with his arms
extended or it can deadlift 150 pounds
so it's got some lifting power for
boring so essentially it's humid arms
aren't very strong but it's grip
strength and leg strength are pretty
good sure yeah if you can deadlift 150
at 125 pounds not bad that's really soft
uh it's got the full self-driving
computer inside it's got a screen up at
the front and it is it is just the
closest thing to a humanoid robot that
anyone's announced that they'll be able
to do
now when they announce this it's funny
you see this like cool sleek looking
robot and who knows if it actually looks
like that but when i saw this two
different things came to mind
one is boston dynamics atlas like that
version of a humanoid robot which is
like this very industrial
incredible looking but very powerful and
impressive super stocky it's only five
feet tall but it is yeah thick it has
like a huge backpack on it's like it has
no fingers it's just like
balls like fists for hand i guess sorry
yeah it's kind of like rubber yeah so i
pictured that but then on the other side
of the spectrum i picture like those
sort of uh dinky like ces you know how
you go to ces and you see like a
humanoid robot that like its only job is
like to hand you like yeah like
brochures or something yeah it's like
like an hors d'oeuvres robot or like
yeah there's one that remember there was
one that like pulled out chairs or like
moved chairs around something like
scrabble or something like that yeah
they're all just super clunky
and the only reason they look like a
human is because they put like eyes and
a face on it exactly and that
that is the interesting part to me is
because robots like that
become unnecessarily
complicated and difficult when they are
human shaped
now if i'm an optimist i'm thinking okay
an engineering company a robotics
company a software company like tesla
should be able to make a really good
general-purpose human-shaped robot but
as of right now there's way more
examples of the dinky ces robot that can
barely stand up that can push in chairs
it's like why don't you just put on
wheels versus like boston dynamics atlas
which is about as advanced and capable
as i've seen any humanoid robot so far
now here's the uh the thing that can
separate tesla just before we get into
the form factor discussion because i
know that's the that's the conversation
we probably want to have yeah but the
the advantage to something like uh what
tesla's doing is in their ai and machine
learning and training it yes so um right
now tesla's cars are all
mostly uh capable of self-driving and
the way they do this is they have
cameras and sensors around the car and
they're taking in all this stimuli from
their environment and it recognizes a
lot of it because it's been trained and
it has this database of information and
what it can do is navigate through that
environment so it sees the road it sees
the lines on the road it knows where to
be but it also sees pedestrians and
motorcycles and trucks and cones and
traffic lights and stop signs and it
uses all this information and makes
thousands of real-time decisions on the
fly and is able to navigate through its
environment
all that decision making and its results
are uploaded to the point where it that
information can be used to train the
next sets of teslas that go through the
same intersection yeah
so
tesla making a humanoid robot with a
general purpose
uh
application in theory we'll be able to
navigate and train itself and continue
to
be trained
the more of them that are out in the
world so if this robot's going through
home depot
the first time it might get it kind of
right but once it uploads that
information it's going to be able to
learn from that and train it and that's
going to come back down to the next
robot that goes to home depot and it's
going to be better at that same task
that's the that's the general idea to
simplify
yeah and i think tesla you know tesla's
ai is clearly fantastic when it comes to
all the road stuff now the biggest
advantage to that is
the way it can gather all the
information on the roads is because a
car is a thing that a person controls to
start so they sold these cars that
people are controlling while starting to
gather the information on that
which then they can continue to build on
build on build on while people are
driving the cars and then as it gets
further and further and further it's
collecting more and more information
yeah roads are also like there are tons
of variables on roads but generally a
road is lined it has very clear markers
for things like ideas that you have to
follow anyways because that's just how a
road works so now it has these very
specific set of objects that it is going
to react off of yeah there's like rules
exactly there's laws and there's there's
like rules where if you tell something
to go from point a to point b your task
is go from this place to this place and
your set of rules is your guidelines
exactly it literally has guidelines on
how to make it to there yeah so you know
obviously the self-driving is one
version of applied robotics and computer
vision but i could see it you can now
say tesla is
a robotics company and this ai
humane robot thing is understandable as
an announcement from tesla
the question i've had is
is it a good idea to make a humanoid
robot and are they are they so
optimistic that they can make an
efficient useful robot in a human form
to the point where that's a better idea
than what i think is actually a better
idea which is
application specific robots
dedicated yeah dedicated for each task
and that's my that's been my toughest
thing i've seen a lot of really
interesting comments actually in the
comments section of the videos and on
twitter
obviously i mentioned like maybe i'm
being short-sighted here but i'm open to
hearing different versions of people's
feedback and what they think it would be
useful for grocery shopping was the
number one uh well that's a good example
it was the example given on stage you
want to unpack that first and then maybe
later we'll go
we'll take a couple other like uh yeah
suggestions yes so uh it's an example of
a task that is best achieved by the
human form yep so the couple examples i
gave in the video were um
vacuuming for example like a boring
repetitive task yep
instead of making a human-shaped robot
to push around a vacuum
we turned the vacuum into a robot right
we have the roomba same thing with the
dishwasher i just you know obviously you
can have humans put things into
dishwashers but instead of making a
human-shaped
dishwasher
it's just the dishwasher is the robot
and so
the more of these examples of tasks i
would want to be taken over by robots
that i could think of the more i thought
that thing should just be the robot and
that's actually a better more efficient
way of doing it because a human-shaped
dishwasher is constrained by the limits
of the human form
versus just making a machine
specifically dedicated to cleaning
dishes and that's all it does it'll do
it better than any machine would ever do
cleaning dishes so
go to the grocery store is an example
where we're like all right we have this
whole world around us that is like
designed by humans for humans we've got
doors and their handles are at like arm
height and we've got like parking lots
and we've got ramps and stairs shopping
carts shopping carts are like this
perfect application it's just built for
a human to use and then that's it
so maybe going to the grocery store and
going shopping for food for you is an
example where
okay you want humanoid robot to be able
to do that and maybe you can do some
other things pretty well but like that's
one thing it does well
and the more i thought about that the
more i'm like
maybe
you would just get a dedicated like set
of robots to achieve that for you before
a general purpose robot and obviously
that's me being pessimistic about a
general-purpose humanoid-shaped robot
the way it has to balance on two feet
and walk around and like be waterproof
in case it rains and like all these
other form factors it has to walk into
the store identify the things you want
how many times you go to the store and
buy something you didn't even realize
you were going to get just based on your
own instinct like that has to happen
with the robot there's a lot of other
factors but in theory yeah it could walk
right in push a shopping cart around
it's designed for the human form
grab the things you want put them in
check out
drive home whatever it's got to do
and it could achieve that task in theory
in theory yeah pretty cool
um i don't know do you picture humanoid
robots amongst people at shoprite no um
i think like
i mean so my initial thought on that was
yes i believe there's a way to automate
that you know with a dedicated specific
grocery shopping robot i think it makes
way more sense to have something that
was on wheels that could go pretty much
shelf to shelf grab whatever product is
on the shelf i can see a robot having an
issue with i mean it's 5a it's not the
tallest robot in the world i mean that's
pretty average height but anything
within the top two shelves that might be
pushed back i can't imagine it reaching
back there yep you've got a ton of other
issues in the sense of if something's
out of stock what does it do does it
just continue to
look for it the whole time or like gotta
figure out what a human would do yeah so
my first thought was we have amazon
warehouses that are extremely automated
at this point that know whether things
are in stock beforehand that know where
to go pick stuff up and bring it to a
central area where it gets boxed
together and then after thinking about
that someone had mentioned this tom
scott video which
again how many times can we reference
this guy he makes the best videos in the
world they're so informative uh
if you ever want to be on the podcast
we'd love you but
he has this really really cool video
about this completely automated grocery
store it's essentially this giant
warehouse and if you can just imagine
the center floor being like a chess
board just squares this huge grid yeah
and essentially
all of the groceries are underneath the
grid and there's specific squares and
these robots
go on all the tracks and are it looks
like this giant beehive almost
so now they're going to all the
different um i guess you aisles i can't
i don't know what the pods maybe yeah
there's like pods yeah yeah
goes above it reaches down grabs how
many items it needs out of it brings it
up into the robot and now it has
everything and can bring it to a
centralized spot to then package all of
it i think they said by the time i order
you order it takes about five hours but
i mean maybe that's kind of long if you
need groceries right away but that seems
pretty efficient if you're booking stuff
in advance and everything yeah it just
seems to make way way more sense to have
a dedicated bot doing all that than like
you said
if a humanoid robot does that it has to
drive itself there maybe it gets into a
car that automatically drives but we're
not at that point either yet well yeah
that was my that was sorry to interrupt
that was number one thing is like
tesla is already one of the companies
that has made application specific
robots if the goal is to have a robot
drive you around i didn't build a
human-shaped robot to sit in the car
that is clearly built for humans and
hold the steering wheel and drive
no the car is the robot you get in the
car whatever you want to put in the car
the car itself is what's going to drive
you from pointing to zombie it has the
sensors it has the capabilities and that
is the robot so that's why i was
thinking like yeah that's way better
than having a human like try to fold
itself into every different type of
shaped car that exists in the world yes
they are generally shaped the same and
they're shaped for humans but
yeah that that's what really got me on
the question of like all right
how useful is
a general human-shaped robot and uh
there's also like the emotional aspect
of it which someone else so asked which
was like okay you've made it
human-shaped is this to elicit some sort
of compassion or make people less scared
of it you know if you were in shoprite
and you saw a human-shaped robot looking
at cans of peaches versus if you saw
like
a spot
grabbing peaches like would that be
better claw that yeah like the clock arm
claw yeah yeah or just something
something eight feet tall so i can reach
the top shelf like would that be too
much for people would they be more
accepting of a human robot i think that
goes and that's an argument i haven't
even really thought of i i will be
optimistic in the aspect that it is
created as a humanoid because of the
world we live in is based on human
ergonomics and i i totally like
i'll i'll stay with there the emotional
aspect i don't think that's i'm ready to
unpack something like that okay i think
it has to be way more real to me to like
elicit enough of a response there i
don't think we have a humanoid robot
that's real enough for me to wonder
like
that thing is a robot but looks like me
yeah how do i feel about this well
here's another one how do you feel when
you see
uh i don't you probably haven't seen
this in person we saw spot when we got
to boston dynamics and we saw videos of
spot like walking around new york city
if you saw spot walking around new york
city is that too much is that weird
i want to use a different example than
new york city because it was used by the
nypd and i don't i don't appreciate
really um so what if
cause it's the whole point is it's
supposed to be doing tasks that are like
replacing either humans or other people
who would do that labor so i'm trying to
think of like another robot so it was
interesting because most of the spot
things were were in situations where
humans wouldn't really be i mean maybe
the construction site ones where it's
just going around and taking uh the same
service every day surveying um but a lot
of it a lot of the applications have to
do with remote work where it could be
controlled from hundreds of miles away
or dangerous work where humans wouldn't
be something like nuclear power plant
that maybe had a leak somewhere or i
don't know if they have leaks but you
know what i mean like something where a
human would be in danger at i think the
remote thing was a nice bonus because it
was like all right there's a
construction site going up and it's in
some remote city you're managing the
site instead of driving up there once
every week and taking pictures of the
same stuff to see how progress has gone
you just sit at home with the controller
and tell the robot to do it again and
you can watch it go around it's like
it's remote just because you can you can
just have the robot there and you never
have to send the robot home so
yeah there's just uh there's a there's a
lot of advantages to this sort of robots
replacing
typical labor stuff it's just a question
of what's the best form factor for it i
want to take a quick break we're going
to come back and talk about the human
shape because i think this is where it
gets the most interesting and the most
juicy and we can have the most uh fun
discussion so we'll be right back this
episode of waveform is brought to you by
netsuite so slow is just right if you're
on vacation or a sloth or describing
quickbooks more like slow books and you
know me i despise slow software so you
can have the most bleeding edge hardware
and if the software doesn't run well
it's basically pointless but now is the
time to make the switch to netsuite by
oracle the number one financial system
because netsuite gives you visibility
and control of your financials inventory
hr e-commerce and more it's everything
you need to grow all in one place with
netsuite you can automate your processes
and close your books in no time no
matter how big your business grows and
you never know how big your business
might get so in fact we're hiring again
at the mkbhd studios and i always make
sure my important software doesn't lag
behind 93 percent of surveyed businesses
increase their visibility and control
since switching to netsuite so special
financing is back netsuite is offering a
one-of-a-kind financing program only for
those ready to switch today so head to
netsuite.com waveform right now that's
special financing at n-e-t
s-u-i-t-e dot com
slash waveform netsuite.com waveform all
right we're back
so
let's talk
let's debate
human-shaped robots versus
non-human-shaped robots so this is the
number one comment i i i was trying to
like
figure out from people because my my
short-sightedness
is is always coming to bite me i i can't
for one i can only see smartphones as
like the end form factor when they
started folding in half i was like mind
blown like i can i can't see them being
injected into our arms or our brains i
just can't i i'm so short-sighted so i
only see
the now so the other half of that is
robots like
i get that we want to make human shaped
robots and they seem really cool but
like
they don't seem ready anytime soon no
not at all and so when i know that we
have really really good application
specific robots and they're easier to
design and create and code than a
general purpose amazing humanoid robot i
think we should do everything that way
that's just my my intuition because of
my lack of robotics degree and my
short-sightedness but a lot of
interesting comments going the other way
so i wanted to talk about that
um i actually want to start there was a
pretty solid
video that was tweeted at me of someone
breaking down like a couple examples of
why we should do humanoid robots so i'm
gonna toss it to adam you can play that
video
hi guys i want to do a very quick video
i've just seen um marcus brownlee's
video where he's you know basically
saying he doesn't agree with the
approach of making the the tesla bot
humanoid now first of all marcus is
fantastic one of the greatest tech
communicators on the planet so this
isn't an anti-marcus video but i do
totally disagree with him on this i'm on
elon's side on this one surprise
surprise so marcus's uh argument was
that you build application specific
robots okay um and and that could be
true if you're building from the ground
up if you're building a car factory for
example absolutely because everything
it's a flat surface you've got an empty
warehouse and you need to fill it with
things but we are talking about um
integrating a robot as possibly a human
assistant into a world that has been
designed over
thousands of years to accommodate the
human form okay so the example he gave
was he said the dishwasher is the robot
that's been designed well that's only
half true because the dishwasher still
needs a human to interact with it okay
it'll be very difficult you'd have to
design some kind of machine that could
take the dishes out off the side or
whatever put them in the dishwasher in
the right place so clearly most
practically the space between your
counter and your dishwasher and all
these things it would need to have the
dimensions of a human because your
kitchen was designed for human um
same with the washing machine this is
first principle stuff elon musk has said
what's the best way to solve the most
problems in one go it's not to build an
individual robot for every single tech
application you have in your home to
replace it so you you have to replace
every single piece of tech or what you
do is you work with what we've got and
you build a robot in the form that is
most compatible with your home because
if you had wheels on the bottom of it it
could go up and down stairs for example
and yes it does have to fit in a car
which means it has to be able to bend
like a human to fit in a car so the
scenario may be that the robot hops into
your tesla one day the tesla a robot
itself drives a robot to supermarket the
robot has to be able to get in and out
of the car otherwise you have to
redesign cars so this is the point and
this is why i disagree and this is why i
think the humanoid approach is correct
thanks guys
all right so i love that i love that
we're actually getting constructive
feedback this is the best part of like
making youtube videos is you immediately
get like a breadth of different opinions
and people who immediately have a
thought and can give an opinion like
that okay so i wanted to talk about
these points for example just real quick
um
the the humanoid
form thing is so interesting because he
mentions like a dishwasher while it is a
robot that washes the dishes it still
needs a human to like load the
dishwasher and i thought i was like okay
that makes a lot of sense but what would
be easier
designing a robot or designing a
dishwasher for that matter with like an
arm inside that can reach out and like
grab additions to put it in or designing
an entire humanoid robot that can do a
ton of stuff
including loading the dishwasher
that's my question i think quick
if i wanted to use the wash the laundry
version sure i think i could find a
solution to that a little quicker the
dishes one is a is kind of interesting
and i think what's funny is every time
someone brings up the dishwasher
scenario is they don't know where the
dishes are getting taken from because
it's like well we have to put them from
the sink into the dishwasher well who
put them in the sink well then we have
to put them from the table to the
dishwasher well who set the table like
it just like it keeps going back and
back into these more mundane and mundane
tasks that i guess kind of like does
make sense for the humanoid robot but i
still not fully sold on it but for
laundry let's say yeah there's people
are saying the clothes don't need to
make it into the laundry machine
i think the easiest way for that is like
your hamper at that point now has some
sort of shoot that goes straight to the
laundry to the the washing machine and
then that washing machine can transfer
to the dryer or
i mean i could totally see and they
might already have this a two in one
washer dryer that's gonna come way
before a humanoid robot can like pick my
clothes up off the floor i saw that at
ces and at a certain point like you've
that's everything right there unless you
want the robot to take my clothes off of
me and put them in the laundry i which i
will put put my foot down right there
somebody wants to prefer that somebody
wants that so i could see maybe there
are people who who have trouble to have
disabilities where that could be a thing
there's probably an arm connected to
your bed or something that could do it
better than that yeah um dishes yeah i
agree there's
there's a it's a tougher scenario but i
also think in all of these cases
we are being extremely optimistic about
being able to have a humanoid robot
that's controlling it i think one thing
to talk about
while our world is set up for
human sized things i still don't always
necessarily know if that means
a exact human i think something with
potentially four legs has a better
balance scenario different types of arms
yeah fingers might not always be the
best and uh the best for it i don't
think
human always makes the most sense for
all those and probably a lot of those
could be done and be done better
with something like spot and an armor or
something like that yeah lots lots of
thoughts on that i mean really the
question might also be there's so many
versions of this pokemon oh yeah which
side which side do you want to attack
the problem at from do you want to
attack it from the end task side or from
like the human side
but the other thing that he mentions is
uh let's say you want it to go grocery
shopping for you it has to drive your
car to the grocery store so it has to be
able to fit in a car so it has to be
human shaped to get in the car
which is true if you don't have a
self-driving car but if you do have a
tesla the tesla drives itself so you
don't need a human-shaped robot it can
fit in the trunk and then the car drives
itself so anyway there's lots of like
back and forth conversation i i would
like to have but obviously
sure let's imagine that right there
where we've already proved that there is
a way you can do a
automated grocery store you don't even
need the robot if your car can drive
itself if we're at that if we're
assuming it's at that point where it can
drive itself already it can just pull up
and pop the trunk and then the automated
grocery store is the one loading it into
your trunk exactly or you know
shipping yeah scenario the grocery store
is the robot or the fedex trucks the
robot so there's a bunch of different
versions of this but i figured we'd make
it a little more interactive for this so
what we're going to do we just actually
completed is we opened up a discord
stage event and we had you guys who are
in our discord server
talk to us about this exact question is
the human form factor for robot a good
idea and we got a lot of really
interesting responses this is the back
and forth i was after so i'm glad we got
to record it just a little asterisk this
is on discord so this is discord audio
it's just a bunch of people talking to
their computers bear with us on that but
also uh it goes really well and there's
some really fun there's questions and
answers yeah it went way further than i
was ever expecting and it ended up yeah
it got completely different prices level
yeah it's fantastic so without any
further ado here's the discord stage
event
uh jay basco18 i just invited you on
stage if you want to talk about uh
your comment
yo how's it going
good how are you i'm sorry if my audio
sucks
that's no problem
how's it going what's your uh what's
your idea how you feeling
yeah i was just thinking of about what
you said about
that you don't see
the robot going to pick up groceries any
soon but i was thinking that maybe
you know for that old generation our
grandparents or something
maybe it could be useful for them to
maybe
you know not having them to
get up to pick up the mail or you know
simple stuff
that
you know sometimes it's not as simple
for
this old vlog you know
yeah
yeah so i like i think one of the one of
the interesting versions of this that i
heard was uh
like going to the grocery store or going
to pick up the mail like you said
and i do think almost all of those tasks
could be accomplished with
not quite a human shaped robot but
probably more of like a small like box
on wheels with an arm attached to it
basically
and the question is
do we want it to be human-shaped because
it's like friendlier or people will be
more accepting of it like are we willing
to put in more engineering money and
dollars to make it balance on two legs
basically because i think you could get
away with grocery shopping with just
like
a wally robot
right
not even a robot but maybe a person that
you can hire you know you don't need
that ie technology to do those
those tasks
but yeah
i don't i don't i don't see why it has
to be human state at all
yeah yeah i mean even i think the the
argument for a robot would be it's
cheaper like you buy the robot once
instead of having to pay a
salary you know so i get that people
want to automate that or give it to a
robot
uh i'm just trying to find a good reason
for it to be human-shaped
right
even though maybe we don't need them now
i guess someone had to do it and
who better than you know elon musk to be
the first with the idea you know
that's fair well we'll look forward to
it we'll see how it goes thanks for the
uh
thank you guys appreciate it yeah
see you
all right hr seven oh cool what's up
dude
yeah hey can you hear me
yeah what's going on
uh hey i'm fine uh yeah so uh i was
thinking like the entire world
like we have an entire world that's
created for the human shape like all of
the facilities everything is
like uh it's designed for the human
aesthetic so if you want robots that can
do anything and everything like
we would have to build a world around it
so rather if the robot is already in a
humanoid shape we already
have so it might be easier for a like
for a wider purpose rather than one
specific use case
yeah so i keep going back back to like
trying to find good examples right so
one example we kept going back to was a
grocery store example like
doors are at the perfect height for a
human to pull the handle and like a
shopping cart is the perfect size thing
for a human to push around on wheels
and
it's a valid point like do you need to
redesign the whole grocery store or do
you design a humanoid robot to fit into
that human-shaped task
and i actually think maybe it's a hot
take but i think we'd be
it would be easier
to make
a robotic grocery store
instead of designing
an incredible human-shaped robot is that
crazy
uh yeah but like okay like for example
you mentioned that we don't have a human
robot that does the vacuum you have a
robot a vacuum that's hit its surface
rover
so but suppose you want a rover that's a
vacuum at a dishwasher and can do your
clothes
and can
tidy up and like a bunch of stuff
so rather than have different robots i
can do all of that one single humanoid
robot may be able to do that since the
ecosystem is already there
yeah
i actually think it was it would be
totally fine to have a bunch of robots
i think it would be actually probably a
little more efficient economically and
physically to have a dedicated like it
sounds crazy like wow you now you'd have
like 100 robots in your house and that's
crazy to have a hundred robots for 100
tasks but we're already kind of there
like you have a dishwasher you have a
you have a washer you have a dryer maybe
one day that's one robot but like that's
two robots right now you might have a
vacuum robot you might have a
microwaving robot you might have
you know a tv robot that transfers the
signal into an image like we have a
bunch of computers even my thermostat
right now is a robot
and uh
you know there's probably some tasks out
there that could be
turned into robot tasks in the future
but those will also be right at that
rate but like wouldn't every single app
like appliance manufacturer and like any
anyone who makes any device would have
to become a robotics company right
i mean would they have to detect for
that
yeah good question uh i think we're
we're actually surprisingly close and i
think we're closer to samsung making a
robotic
like
washer that can actually take the
clothes out of your hands and do the
whole job for you
than we are to
you know
boston dynamics atlas like putting
clothes in the dishwasher in the washer
but yeah you know we'll keep an eye on
it but that's a that's a good that's a
very common comment i saw on like uh on
the youtube comments on twitter like do
we really want 500 robots in our houses
and
i don't know we might be closer than we
think but thanks for a question
thank you take care
i think there's an interesting
aspect in there of like jack of all
trades master of none um
yes a single humanoid robot can probably
do a whole mess of things but i do agree
with you that like a bunch of tiny
individual
i mean we're calling them robots but
like we said our house right now has
stuff like that it has a dishwasher has
a washer and dryer a thermostat like
nobody's downstairs like i said
shoveling coal or you know distributing
oil and making sure all the temperatures
are correct
it's kind of like that already i just
don't think we see it because we don't
think of it as a specific robot and then
a single human robot trying to do all
these different things
to me feels like that's a
mighty mighty task to accomplish when we
have so many things that do all of those
already
yeah tom scott had a really great point
he made a video about actually a grocery
store robot a robotic grocery store and
it was super interesting but actually
one of the best points in that video
besides the fact that oh my god you can
make a grocery store robot
is the fact that humans don't really see
uh robots until they're roughly human
sized
and so you might see you know a bunch of
little robot shopping carts rolling
around and think wow that's like 150
robots but really the entire grocery
store is one robot with 150 different
little arms inside doing work
and so when you think about like uh do i
really want a hundred different robots
in my house doing a whole bunch of
different things
another way of thinking about that or at
least just framing that
is your house is one robot that is doing
a bunch of things for you already your
house you know you think about a
thermostat like instead of
a a bunch of different objects coming
together and like pressing the buttons
on a thermostat to change the
temperature you can have the temperature
automatically be changed by a robotic
thermostat by doing air quotes
inside the same house
where it you know washes the dishes for
you and dries them and dries your
clothes and like there's all these
things that happen inside the house
already so
maybe it's uh maybe it's just one big
robotic house instead of a humanoid
robot walking around inside it
smart house if anyone remembers the old
disney channel original movie that uh
this is goals right there cannon update
would you i'm gonna invite you to speak
if you want to come on
cannot update i can't believe i said
that incorrectly it was a very simple
word
hey what's up
uh pretty good market so my question was
like recently we almost lost the hubble
telescope because
uh we did not have
we don't have a human program like a
space shuttle program that can
take us to
any satellite
so hubble was designed to be
maintained and upgraded
and we don't have the replacement quite
up so could these uh robots
something like uh
spacex
uh
tesla robot be a good option because you
could technically
there won't be enough latency so you
could technically control it by people
on the ground and it would have similar
joints
as humans
so in that kind of a situation would it
be a good option to have
a humanoid essentially instead of spot
doing it
that's a really good question i'm going
to ask you a follow-up question because
i'm not as familiar with this but when
you say we almost lost this the hubble
uh telescope is it because there were
things that had to be performed
in person by a human
on
the telescope
so what essentially happened was
a hubble telescope has redundancies in
it and the power unit in there is the
one that is active now is the one that
is the redundant one
and it is fairly common for the power
supply and stuff to fail
on there because nothing is designed
like most of the things are not designed
to stay in space forever
so now we are on the last or the
last fail safe in on the hubble
telescope so if somebody were to ship a
power supply up it would have to be
linked to the existing circuitry and
then that would become the redundant
or the fail-safe for the one that is
already in use
if that makes sense
no it does that makes a lot of sense and
i think that's like the
i guess the general question would be
okay now that we know we have this task
that we need to complete
um and from what i understand the hubble
space telescope is pretty old i mean
it's it's been out there for a while but
would it be
a better use of resources to
modify and improve the telescope itself
or
to design a functioning humanoid robot
to go up there and continue to maintain
its current design
and that's
that's not a question i have an answer
to just i'm not as familiar with
obviously the telescope i know it's it's
been out there for a long time and it's
probably our most important most famous
telescope
but i wonder like uh you know the the
general question coming down to like do
you want to redesign the old thing
to work better in a more robotic way or
do you want to design a new robot to
continue using the old thing built to be
used by humans
so hubble was like a more recent c bias
kind of an example however like once the
james webb telescope gets active that is
the telescope that would not be in earth
orbit it would be in a lagrange point so
fairways away from the earth
and
for that you won't be able to just like
and if you want that telescope to be
active for like 15 20 years so you need
some with somebody or something being
willing to go to the lagrange point
maintain it and come back or not come
back kind of a thing
so do you think though that the humanoid
form factor is the best to accomplish
something like that or we see things
like spot which i mean
i don't know the exacts of robotics but
it seems like the the two-legged
arms and hands form factor right now
generally has like a higher center of
gravity and can't lift as many things
and like spot seems to be something that
in general use kind of like one of its
big um
things they sell for is remote work so
somebody far away can accomplish stuff
with the cameras and arms on it so it's
something
now space adds a whole other aspect to
this where maneuvering around space is
obviously very different but
would there be something you think
non-humanoid that would be more
efficient in space being able to you
know
maybe maybe almost like a spider robot
that can grab onto the walls and
everything and still have two arms that
can be used remote to like you said
replace this uh power supply and the
wires stuff like that or does a
two-legged finger
humanoid robot make the most sense here
so the reason why i was thinking that
the humanoid would be
more easier in the early run would be if
say there is less latency and you can
have some an electrician
uh on planet earth trying to control it
and then you have one to one finger
feedback for initial time being till you
don't have smart robots that is that can
do things on its own so that is nearly
important
right do you think that
sorry sorry i interrupted
go ahead quick
um so it seems like the the finger
aspect is what you're most interested
here and i i totally agree like if it's
like you said one to one finger i
believe they have surgery robots that
there's something very similar with that
where you're essentially putting your
hands into
uh
yeah like a glove and it's reacting but
i mean you can still put fingers and
hands onto a robot with four legs or six
legs or maybe something that has a
better center of gravity can grip onto
different things with multiple other
legs better and is would still be
considered designed specifically
for that
yes so yeah that is essentially where
that was the only part where i said that
this would be useful because mostly
we've designed like spot as i gave the
example spot would be useful in the
longer run once it learns or anything so
it was just like in this quick case
scenario
for the next five years that seems like
could be an option
but i do agree that a spot would be a
better option because it is a more
refined concept of a
moving structure
yeah yeah i think and even in the future
you know as we continue to make new
telescopes that go further from earth
and are more less likely to want to send
a human up to repair
they should probably be designed to be
remote repaired
and not repaired by humans which is like
a whole another story i'm not about to
sit out here in an armchair designed
telescope but that's like uh that's like
another
uh general thought is like okay we know
these things are built to be operated by
humans and then humans go up and repair
them but what if uh what
if we just make them so we never have to
do that again would that be better
yeah that would be better yeah so that
is essentially what i was thinking about
in the future all right real quick let's
take a quick break we'll come back and
we'll talk more about some robots
this episode of the waveform podcast is
brought to you by blackvue have you ever
been in a situation where a dashcam
might come in handy i kind of wish i had
one that truck sideswiped me a few years
ago but before it's too late get the day
and night protection your vehicle
deserves with the blackvue dr750x plus
series cloud dash cams so whether you're
driving around on a busy road waiting
for the traffic light to change or just
parked at night blackvue dash cams have
your vehicle covered the blackvue dr750x
plus model features an upgraded sony
starvis sensor that gives you stunning
clarity and vivid colors even in the
most challenging of situations and not
only does it give you great looking
footage
but because of the impressive dynamic
range you can also be sure that you're
not going to miss important information
like a license plate or something like
that just because of harsh lighting
conditions so the front camera also
records at a full 1080p 60fps so you
won't risk losing information even at
higher speeds and with blackvue cloud
you can rest easy knowing you can check
in at your car at any time and even
receive notifications on your phone so
you can go to blackvue.com waveform and
use promo code waveform to get 10 off
any blackvue dashcam free shipping on
orders over 200 bucks so that's b l a c
k
v u e
dot com slash waveform promo code
waveform
uh noah
i invited you up if you'd like to join
hey is that my level good
fantastic great audio quest mike
oh thank you it's a blue spark digital
um nice
yeah so
for hot takes i mean one of the hottest
takes for robotics is
you know being able to replace jobs and
tesla's doing things like with the
tesla semi right it's being able to
replace a driver potentially with its
whole ai self-driving and that driving
trucks is one of the largest markets in
the usa
and uh so if you think about there's
also a lot of jobs that require not too
much thinking tasks but a lot of tasks
with like using your hands and walking
around like say serving tables at a
restaurant or like helping out the
disabled people in the hospital right
so for any of those tasks which are
quite a few and there's
just anyone that doesn't require a lot
of thinking but a lot of you know just
general interacting with objects i think
a bot that's designed like a human would
be able to fit that role very well since
you know the world is designed for
humans it's not designed for a dog
yeah so i like this this is interesting
so
the one is i kind of like the like
waiting tables
uh example
where let's say because in theory like
all the robot has to do if it's waiting
tables is it needed to collect your
orders it needs to carry the plates out
and back and clean the tables and stuff
like that
and it could be shaped like a human but
it could also be shaped like
like wall-e or like a box on wheels with
three arms and it could probably
accomplish the same thing
and i wonder is it human-shaped because
that makes it more easy to understand or
it's friendlier for people if you're in
a restaurant and you sit down and
there's a human-shaped robot you know
that it's taking your order versus if
it's a box you don't know what's
happening
is that like the main advantage
i mean that is one part of it because
we've seen you know when the tesla robot
came out we saw people referencing
movies like the terminator right oh
here's this evil robot that's gonna come
kill us all but you know another famous
movie is big hero 6 where you have
a human-shaped robot that's one of the
main characters one of the big
advantages is that you're able to
empathize with it
so i think that is a big factor having a
robot that people can you know empathize
with or even
feel comfortable having it in a room i
think another example would be data from
the old star trek movies or tv shows
but uh the other part of it is just that
you know we are in a
world designed for humans you know every
object from you know the doorknob to the
stairs is made for a human to be able to
interact with so
i think having a human-shaped robot
while we might not be able to think of
any single example having something that
if you wanted a robot that could adapt
to any situation
when it comes to just general day-to-day
activities then i think a human-shaped
robot would be ideal for that
yeah i think a key word you used was
adapt so
i remember when i was talking to elon in
in the interview we did i put the clip
in the video actually um where we were
talking about the factory and like what
are some things that robots do in the
factory versus like what humans are
doing because there's still humans
working in the factory yeah and then the
example he gave was like oh you know
maybe just connecting two hoses together
and so there might be a hose on the left
and a hose on the right and then tell
the human to connect them and they just
grab one grab the other put them
together
and a robot's like decent at that once
but then if the next time the hoses are
in different places the human just knows
to grab them again and the robot needs
to like figure it out again
yeah and i wonder like what level of
adaptability is possible from these like
impressive
machine learning computer vision enabled
robots that test this building and can
actually be like how hard is it going to
be to make them as good as a real human
because i love the idea
but it seems like that is
equally as difficult as redesigning
parts of the world we live in
yeah and i think the solution or the the
answer to that question which none of us
are going to be able to say for now
uh relies more on the software of the
robot rather than hardware like
tesla's building one of the largest
super cute computers in the world just
for ai and once they solve self-driving
what will they be able to train ai on
could you create something that could
say hey google make me a cup of coffee
right would we be able to do it i don't
know but it will be very interesting to
see that in the future
yeah do you think about like how many
variables there are in the real rest of
the world versus self-driving because
this is one of the things that came up
in our talks was like all right
driving a car there's a road there's
lines on the road and then there's maybe
like a dozen things you're going to
encounter a bunch of times like there's
other cars there's trucks motorcycles
bikes pedestrians stop signs street
lights
and then you kind of like you've kind of
done it
you solve self-driving
but
make me a coffee you know there's
there's one task you recognize the
coffee and there's a bunch of things
there but then there's like hey grab my
headphones downstairs doesn't know what
headphones are does it need models of
that and then it's hey go grocery
shopping and there's just this massive
list of
way more stuff to learn
and you know if i can do it it's
probably tesla but i just i'm curious
that's a factor
yeah and i think the thing about will be
able to identify my products
i think that's something that we're
already seeing
these programs being able to solve
because if you go into like if you look
at what ai is doing when you go into
google or anything you can say give me a
picture of a cat and there's ai that
will actually be able to give you
pictures of cats that have not been
taken ever you could say here's a
picture of a sunny beach
so to say that there's an ai that could
say hey get my headphones and it would
be able to know what your headphones are
and be able to identify them i think
that's something that we already have
but on the matter of you know how hard
is it to do day-to-day activities versus
how hard is it to drive a car
i mean i kind of wish that i
knew more about ai just to answer that
question because it's like
you know every one of us humans
is able to do human things easily yet we
need to train and get a license to drive
a car so does that mean that driving a
car is more difficult than walking down
a set of stairs or does that just mean
that we're really good at walking down
sets of stairs and i'm pretty terrible
relatively at driving cars
and i don't know but i'm really excited
to see
what happens because
you know ai wasn't really a thing that
normal people could access what 10 20
years ago and now we already have things
that are able to generate images to find
objects and self-drive your car so you
know 15 years from now it's going to be
pretty swell
yeah i like the optimism i think that's
the best the best way to look at it is
like we've gotten this far and it's
funny like there's even still some cases
where i'll like ask google lens what
type of sneaker i'm looking at and it's
like that's a blender and i'm like no
not not at all
but yeah it is really inspiring yeah
it's inspiring when it gets it right so
i like i like the optimism noah
thank you and uh i like your videos i
must say
thank you appreciate that thanks for
coming up
yeah no worries have a great day don't
forget to drink water
i think we have one
one more
all right i have one more somebody in
here said
let's see i have mind-blowing thing you
should hear no one has ever thought
about for a humanoid robot so i think i
can't not invite this person up to talk
so let's uh we're gonna do our last one
here i think because we need to this is
all going to go into the podcast um and
we talked about a lot of stuff before
and we will talk about a lot of stuff
after so we can't do too too many uh but
specified knoll i'm gonna invite you up
is these are big shoes to fill no one's
ever heard about it so let's see
uh hello thanks for inviting me
uh you can hear me is it clear um it's
good thanks um so i had a really great
idea that i have been thinking about for
a while
and that is okay so you know for tesla
cars they replace humans to drive so you
can use the car
you don't have to do any input and you
can drive it it's like a tool for humans
now
humanoid robot um okay let me put it
this way our bodies are kind of a
transport for our heads
basically we live in our heads so now we
can uh you know transplant arms limbic
arms or legs we can transplant hearts
but not yet entire bodies so i would say
this is a great experiment that if this
robot can walk properly can navigate can
do everything that we can do
and then at some point let's say we get
old we get 90 years old our body is old
but not our brain our brain still works
if we could somehow
do like
a surgery that removes our head without
us dying and put it on a robot
that can you know
pump blood to our brain give us food
so we don't have to eat actually we
don't have to drink
so the robot does everything we just
charge it and give it like supplies so
it supplies food and water to our brain
and then we can walk we can navigate the
world and we can change our bodies just
like the movies but like
this is required just like the cars they
need to
drive a lot around the cities and town
to learn
we need a robot learn how to navigate
the world we need a robot that can do
that and then we can transplant yes this
is for the future like
maybe the next hundred i don't know 10
20 50 years that we can actually get
bodies for our brains because basically
our body
is a trans
transport for our heads like we eat to
supply food to it and then we have legs
to walk we have hands to do things
basically we only need our brain
man
eat that that is a very valid point our
our body is a transport vehicle for our
brain our brain is the most important
organ according to the brain anyway
um
no i'm with you okay so here's another
question then so you need to somehow
connect
the brain and all of the systems the
the breathing system the
the the blood and the oxygen going to
the brain and everything so that all you
need to do is just charge it
um
what did you forget to charge
well okay so basically that's where
neuralink comes in place neurolink helps
the brain to connect to computers
so you can you know control your arms
your legs even you can replace your eyes
have high resolution eyes you can see
further you can see anything you can see
your emails you can you don't even need
a phone they can like literally connect
to the world and for the foot part
basically the robot needs two supplies
one is charging for the batteries the
other supply is like imagine like having
like a small sack of bowls that one of
them is oxygen the other is food so you
just put it in and then it will have a
supply of oxygen for months for your
brain and you can choose what you want
to eat for your brain today you can
like insert
something that will pump that food and
oxygen and supplies and nutritions to
the blood that is a small stream of
blood it just goes to the brain and
recycles it and cleans so you don't
actually probably need to breathe
anymore i guess
what about uh what about a nervous
system because i i'm with you on like
okay attach my brain to a humanoid robot
what about like feeling things like i
can move my hands and i can pick things
up but can you still uh are there enough
sensors out there is the tech good
enough to replace a nervous system well
at the moment probably not we don't know
much about the brain but i'm sure elon
what he's doing with the neural link
if he can successfully connect the
entire brain interface to the body
including controls and sensation
feelings
um vision hearing everything we probably
just could take the brain out not the
head
just the brain in a safe container
like in the head or it could be anywhere
in the human robot maybe in the chest
and we can go anywhere because we are a
brain that is connected to you know
our bodies to take us go around we
probably could do that
okay so
you've heard of the you've heard the
simulation argument where like
if you advance technology sufficiently
far enough into the future our
simulations get so
good that they're indistinguishable from
reality and we may or may not be in a
simulation already
do you ever think about
this
as a uh as a future argument for this
like are we already humanoid robots
are we already there we do do do we do
it already
we could think about this all day there
could be another world they could be we
could be in a simulation or not but
doesn't matter what matters is the
reality we are in either we are in the
simulation or not and there's no way
probably to prove it but that's okay
what matters is we look in the future
and what we can do for the humanity
right what we can do to improve and what
is
the most important thing is our lifetime
and it's limited right people have
thousands of years have been trying to
you know extend human life but nobody
could have done that until today
we have the technology it's just a
little bit we're you know we're almost
there we just need to understand the
brain and be able to connect it to our
bodies and at that point it's important
like you said it's important that we go
to the right direction we don't go to a
matrix and stack all the people into a
computer we have to build a better world
and that's where it starts today i
believe
i agree we are so far off topic and i
love it it's great
uh i thank you thank you for the
for the thousand foot view i think that
was that was a useful way to probably
end this
i'm gonna know everything i thought it
was useful
yeah i'm gonna be thinking a lot about
whether or not i would like my brain to
be connected someday to a sufficiently
advanced robot with the right technology
yeah sure because you know our minds
probably only see the current situation
we see the robots as they are we need a
vacuum robot we need robots for grocery
shopping but what we don't see is the
far future the next
10 uh 20 at 50 years from now or a
decade so that's the future we're
building towards and we have to be able
to you know imagine or visualize what's
going to be the world in hundred years
another another use case scenario just
remember is like for as of right now
before we get our olympic bodies uh
uh robotic bodies we can use these
humanoid robots uh to learn to navigate
uh you know disasters
earthquakes um hazards that
no robot could you can't send a vacuum
robot there to save people but this
human robot can it can drive a fire
truck immediately like we need help all
the people are down everybody needs help
so it can drive cars it can take you the
car not all cars are self-driving
not all hospitals
uh have equipment that can be controlled
by computers we need those people to
take care of people at hospitals
or people that people need care you know
when we need people old elderly they
need care like it's not just all robots
can
do all their needs for them we need
someone that can care for them help them
in case of emergency they need to go to
hospital all right sure let's let's go
pick up the car keys i'm gonna drive you
to hospital that that robot's gonna do
for you gonna save your life
yeah i think that the one thing i see in
that is like that sort of makes the
humanoid robot a
a middle
like a stop gap in between technology of
the future
like you say obviously hospitals today
aren't all robotic and cars and fire
trucks and ambulances today are not
self-driving so until they are
we should make an a sufficiently
advanced humanoid robot that can fill
the gap of things humans can't quite do
until we get to that better day where
all the ambulances are self-driving and
we can send like a wally shaped robot
into the rubble of a disaster to help
save people like we need this this in
between and if we get the humanoid robot
right
quickly then it can fill a gap until
tech of the future is amazing
sure exactly exactly and until then
hopefully this robot will be able to
walk and navigate the world just like
humans just like tesla cars can drive
now they can navigate until that day
probably those robots will be able to do
most of the things and then
hopefully by then a neural link will be
able to link our brains to them so we
can actually walk we could be at home
and control a human robot remotely so we
could be anywhere in the world we can
connect to any one of them and
experience the world just as it is
perfect i might be internet by being
controlled from home right now who knows
awesome hey thank you so much for uh
thanks for chiming in we appreciate that
i think that's true
i appreciate it thanks for having me
have a good one
you too have a good one take care all
right thanks
all right well that was incredible uh
i think that's what we're gonna probably
cut it that was a nice existential way
to end this i want before everyone
leaves this discord room i want everyone
right now wherever you're sitting
to picture
that you are just a remote controlled
human-shaped robot being
being controlled by someone else
somewhere you are ready player one i
just want everyone to have that
that vision right now look down at your
own hands is it real what's even real
anymore all right well
that went
better than expected didn't no i don't
know if i expected to
look down in my own hands questioning
reality but i ended up doing that
because maybe i am a humanoid robot
after all um wow human after all is a
song by daft daftbunk which is the
robots dang that is deep whoa there's no
such thing as a coincidence whoa okay
well anyway
i think just to put a bow on this
the uh the last thing that made
headlines from tesla's ai day when they
talked about this robot we did get elon
saying uh there might be a prototype by
the end of next year i think he said
that's what he said 2022 yeah um now for
anyone who's ever heard elon announce a
date on stage we already are just gonna
go ahead and assume that that's not
happening not at all uh but
you know seeing seeing what we know
about these ces robots and what we know
about boston dynamics atlas if you were
betting when do you think you would see
realistically a tesla built humanoid
robot that learns its way around the
world and is actually somewhat useful
and also like
doesn't fall over that's like that
people are using to actually accomplish
tasks and it's doing things by itself
like you ask it to do something and it
does something yeah because you know i
mean even at the base level i'll be dead
by the time that yeah i mean we don't
know what coming out means like i i
assume
so like that could literally be anything
sure yeah it could just be a prototype
that have somewhere like a model the
tesla roast is a prototype too like
whatever but like eventually it's gonna
come out and does that mean it's gonna
be a retail purchase for humans like
you'll be able to buy one for your own
house i have no idea where we're going
with this particular robot but when do
you think we'll see a functional
functional humanoid robot that does some
of this stuff
if i'm taking
so like can we agree we've said it
already atlas is the closest thing we've
seen
to you and i have seen right it's the
most advanced humanoid shaped robot i've
seen yeah and it is
not even
a fraction of what
this tesla bot seems to want to
accomplish it's not as graceful
it is not really it doesn't have fingers
it's much shorter it's much stockier
like that would not fit into a car it's
much louder yeah it's it's basically
mostly
running around itself i mean even boston
dynamics i don't think is called
anything other than research and
development like as far as i know they
don't have a specific plan for it yeah
it's not coming out and that is
you know they've been in the game way
longer than tesla has in terms of the
actual building of robots we all agree
tesla's ai and software is fantastic and
like totally makes sense for something
like this but if i were betting like
like i said i'll be dead by the time
teslabot comes out and
is doing
you know if it goes for sale for sale
and people are actually buying it
i mean
yeah i can't imagine this is something
that has to fully rely on it tesla cars
when they release full self-driving and
stuff and people are paying for it the
car still works as a car in that process
this robot can't be
used for anything unless it's working in
that scenario so it has to be fully
fleshed out at that point i
at least 50 years i think we're going to
still alive i think we land on mars
before we get the robots working to an
acceptable level but i don't think
that's 50 years out i think that's close
so i think this is a kind of an
interesting thing you mentioned about
stop cap robots is we're so far out of
this
do we have the technology for it to do
to be a stopgap robot or are we further
along in all the other technologies to
be have these more individual
automations
before
yeah the
the humanoid robot is doing all of them
i think that's the that's the best thing
that i got out of this with all of our
conversations we've had about the robots
and with all of our back and forth and
the discord stage room and the comments
on twitter and the videos i think the
best thing
that i see from these robots
is if we can make a pretty good
general purpose robot whether it's human
shaped or not let's ignore the human
shape just a pretty good general purpose
robot
i think that robot would be pretty
useful as a stop gap between
when we actually get everything else to
be robots so we were talking about like
obviously you want to be able to drive a
fire truck into a forest fire and be
able to like put something out from the
middle and you don't want to send a
human in there but since forest since um
fire trucks aren't self-driving you need
something else to drive the truck like
before before that is a self-driving
fire truck maybe there is a humanoid
robot driving it and that's like
self-driving
self-driving fire truck way before a
humanoid robot can do it because we have
self-driving i mean that's true we
basically have self-driving cars already
that's right and then for a fire truck
listen that i have a lot of family
members who are firefighters it's it's
very hard but like in general you could
probably have a fire truck that has a
hose attached to it that's that's
controlled also by the same sensors and
stuff there's way more to it than that
but i still just don't think the
humanoid robot is coming and doing the
job of a firefighter or driving a fire
truck yeah stuff like that i think i
think the aspiration is really admirable
like oh yeah people picturing it as like
waiting tables at a restaurant or like
just doing simple things for the elderly
like collecting the mail and bringing
them the milk from the delivery outside
like very simple you can't talk about
humanoid robots and also still talk
about getting milk delivered
simple stuff like different worlds i'm
just saying you just in this world where
we wanted to do very simple basic things
for sure having one robot just to go get
the mail
is maybe
less desirable than having one general
friendly human-shaped robot that does a
bunch of these everyday tasks
and so i think if that is the aspiration
of something like teslabot cool i hope
i'm optimistic i at least i want it to
go well i'm not necessarily
betting on it going well but i'm hopeful
that we do get something like that
uh to actually be friendly and useful
but maybe when we're old we we will
revisit this
if it comes out and you and i are
elderly and need help getting our
laundry picked up and and mail taken and
we'll we'll come back we'll do another
podcast episode if the tesla bot comes
out before
2030
then i will
i will let it slap me across the face
yeah same okay same i will tell it to
slap me across the face to its face
that's about it that's where we're gonna
end it
this is a wild episode if you're this
far
kudos to you thank you for listening
appreciate you uh yeah that was a that
was a lot it's a fun one we'll be back
next week i'm sure there's a lot more
tech coming out i mean it's that time of
year it's going to happen so uh yeah
stay tuned for that see you guys in the
next episode definitely subscribe to the
studio channel to the clips channel and
to the main mkbhd channel while you're
at it we'll catch you guys
in the next one peace waveform was
produced by adam molino we are
partnering with studio 71 and our intro
outro music was created by vain silk