I'm marquez and i'm andrew and today we've
got a couple pretty big stories we've
got the adventures of the day without
facebook all the stuff that happened and
and why and what went down which was a
monday of course
and then we've got the new surface
products which is a whole new lineup and
we made a video about them and then
we've got one single
new cringy intel ad that i just want to
go over from rant about yeah uh so we've
got you here with me we'll have david on
in the second half of the podcast as
well we'll talk surface stuff but i say
we start with facebook yeah that was
that was the big story of the internet
this week is on a monday bright and
early i'm sure
in california time it was probably like
seven eight a.m when all started one p.m
eastern so okay so eleven ten eleven
twelve yeah something like that facebook
goes down and you probably kind of
noticed the the series of things that
happened which is you try to go on
facebook
you realize it's not loading you check
your wi-fi you're like why is my wi-fi
not working but your wi-fi is working so
you're like oh is facebook down so then
you go to i don't know instagram just to
see if it works yeah yeah yeah
instagram's also down and then you go
start
figuring out connecting the dots most of
us are like we're on twitter and we're
seeing everybody else say that facebook
is down and instagram's down and all
that yeah i don't i don't check facebook
that often so i found out because it was
trending on twitter and i hadn't checked
instagram yet that day so it was all
sort of trending on twitter at once that
a bunch of stuff that facebook runs and
owns is down at the same time they're
all connected yeah i think that's what
it didn't hit me what the magnitude of
that was at first because i saw facebook
down on twitter thought
cool i don't use it that much just like
you i mean i use it to communicate with
my family sometimes that's down who
cares yeah then you realize instagram's
connected and that's the first pretty
big one it's like okay i like instagram
way more than facebook yeah that one
kind of hurts a little bit
and then it just keeps going like you
don't realize what it's and then
whatsapp's down which right facebook
also owns whatsapp and we don't use it
that much we use sms mostly i mean we
still have like slack and some other
messaging apps but whatsapp is gigantic
internationally it's massive yeah
millions and millions of people use
whatsapp and we'll go over that in a
second yeah but like we've seen outages
like this in the past like when amazon's
web services go down when aws goes down
you realize how many sites on the
internet depend on aws and they're all
down at once and usually it's brief but
you'll notice like wow there's a lot
that's actually all connected here so
yeah we we saw the the solar small world
of the internet as facebook.com and all
those services
facebook messenger instagram all of that
whatsapp even oculus yeah oculus was
kind of funny to me because it's just
like oh like just the last thing i would
ever imagine to be
hit by facebook being down is like i
can't play vr now that's facebook but it
just makes total sense yeah you have to
log in through oculus which brings me to
my next thing where
when we first start seeing it kind of
outside of the general facebook realm
because you know like facebook instagram
whatsapp they're all directly owned by
facebook so it all makes sense yeah then
i saw like michael fisher tweeting about
how he couldn't even go on his to-do
list because
he had he logged in through facebook on
his to-do list app
yes so imagine all this i mean the
second order the majority of times when
i download some new app that i'm not
that excited about but i just want to
have it because maybe it does one nice
thing if it gives me the option to log
in through facebook or google i'll do it
because it's so much quicker than just
oh interesting um making a new account
every time yeah there's different
philosophies with that i
never ever log in through facebook
that's my that's been my mentality i do
log in through google with some things
and then apple now will let you
literally make a new fake email address
to sign up so if you sign in through
apple you can just bypass all of that
sort of tracking but i i want to go over
the explanation for exactly what
happened first and then we can go over
like the experience and the effects
because there were a lot of them