all right what is up fellow tech timber
sailors hope your seas are smooth
september
there we go what's up uh tech member
crusaders how's it going
welcome to the wayform podcast uh we're
your hosts i'm marquez and i'm andrew
and today's episode we have like a whole
lot of eevee news we've got some
announcements some disasters some just
pure head scratchers uh we kind of guy
have it all and then apple officially
announcing some right to repair steps
they're taking which kind of blew all of
our heads off really interesting yeah
but but but first
marquez is big mad
why are you mad marquez i am uh i don't
know if i'd say i'm mad as much as i'm
just a little bit uh
confused i don't know i just so okay we
got the news this week that
staples center
the iconic
you know middle of la arena host the
lakers and the clippers and i'm sure
like four or five other teams
will be rebranded
i believe starting next year
as
crypto.com arena so this crypto.com
company
inked a deal they'll be the the name of
the arena for the next 20 years and i
was like i was looking it up i was like
wow that's a that's a long time
obviously staples center is probably one
of the most iconic in the states
and uh
i was so curious how much that cost and
it's 700 million dollars the only reason
i'm confused is like
i don't know crypto.com doesn't seem
like a great name for an arena it's the
crypto.com arena yeah like in terms of
just catchiness and rolling off the
tongue staple center is way easier way
more iconic i mean yeah you mentioned
it's it's built to the iconic-ness of it
yeah i was thinking about this i was
like
here's my slightly lukewarm take all
arena names are pretty bad
but we've gotten used to them over time
because we say them so often like i've
seen i've pulled up right now just a
list of a bunch of them in the us just
for nba teams
the milwaukee bucks play at pfizer forum
forum uh we've got smoothie king arena
that's in the nba we've got
the cavs play at rocket mortgage field
house like nobody really wants to say
the company names out loud but staples
is a company and they've paid for their
name to be on the side of the arena and
tons of memories have been made with
iconic lakers teams especially in
staples center and i still think people
are going to call it staples center
that's the funny
but
there is going to be like you know
there's a i think someone's already
tweeted like a render of like that
helicopter shot at the beginning of an
mba broadcast where like
it it's going to be on the on the front
on the top on the sides like i i was
saying i went to crypto.com today for
the first time ever i didn't know about
them so it's working and i'm kind of
surprised this is the first
crypto company because oh i bet a lot of
them have 700 million dollars this is
the first time we've seen a crypto
company put their name on an arena like
this yeah i was kind of talking to david
about how crypto.com we didn't know it
was a website and i think it's one of
those sites that suffers from having too
good of a domain name it's like too
general it's too broad that crypto.com
just feels like
too easy like it doesn't it's not catchy
it's good i guess it's only it's it
feels generic but it's kind of what they
are it's like they're a crypto wallet
and a crypto trading service like
coinbase is kind of similar
but it's a coinbase is like a unique
name it's a little more specific yeah
crypto is just now this all-encompassing
internet currency that they just like
crypto.com just feels and you have to
put dot com because if it was just
crypto arena that sounds better but
that's not going to send anybody to your
website right which is the biggest issue
in terms of
like advertising it which is what
they're paying for i think they won the
seo battle i just yeah it's a weird name
also one of my favorite hot takes was
like a lot of urls aren't around for a
very long time like they expire
companies are born and die quickly do we
think crypto.com will still work in 20
years i can only and i imagine i don't
you know crypto's pretty young we'll see
but this is uh that's i'm not mad i'm
just like yeah a little thrown off by
that i think crypto will be around there
whether crypto.com is one of the places
doing it in 20 years although i'm sure
all these places try and lock up
something so long to get somewhat of a
discount and then oh yeah uber i'm sure
plenty of people break contracts at a
certain point if it goes to funky i
wonder if they pay in advance to 700
million or if they pay it like every
year they exist or if they'll be in debt
who knows i don't know how these deals
work i don't know how it works i i think
the biggest thing here that you
mentioned was that it is still the same
building which people just have known as
the staples center for so long like i've
seen nhl arenas switch but it's usually
when a building goes down and becomes
a whole new
arena much easier because you're not
referencing specifically that staples
center will be called staples center for
the rest of its life until it's a new
arena yeah until everyone who who knew
about staples center is dead
uh
apple right to repair we got to talk
about this this one caught us by
surprise this morning it definitely did
i i am fascinated by this and i've been
as we record this which is on a
wednesday which you know you listen to
the podcast on friday i've been sort of
organizing my thoughts into a potential
video so that may be up by the time you
see this um but yeah we can sort of
summarize the announcement and then our
thoughts about it sure we get this apple
newsroom press release titled apple
announces self-service repair program
which is well okay apple's notoriously
been against right to repair so what is
this program so apple will allow
customers like you and me customers who
are comfortable with completing their
own repairs access to apple genuine
parts and tools available first to
iphone 12 and iphone 13 lineups and soon
to be followed by mac computers
featuring m1 ships
and self-service repair will be
available early next year in the us and
then expand to additional countries
throughout 2022
the initial phase of the program will
mostly be focused on
commonly serviced modules such as
iphone's display battery and camera the
ability for additional repairs will be
available later next year
so it goes on to explain all these
different details but there's a lot in
those first two paragraphs there that is
for sure quickly being digested but i
want to go through each of them because
i think there's a lot yeah first of all
we did a video already on write to
repair if you haven't seen it i
recommend watching it i'm pretty biased
but i think it's pretty good we have
some interviews we talked to louis
rossman we have a whole breakdown on a
bunch of different companies including
apple but apple's one of the biggest
companies in the world one of the most
uh influential consumer-facing so when
apple changes a stance and makes a pro
right to repair move like this not only
is it big for apple but it's big for the
ripples it sends through the industry
so the first detail is
they're starting with iphone 12 and
iphone 13 lineups soon to be followed by
m1 max yeah so you know a lot of people
who are probably hoping to get repairs
done are probably on older iphones and
older macs fine i imagine those were not
built with
uh
commonly accessed repairs by normal
people in mind yeah not in mind not that
they couldn't be done but clearly not
when apple was thinking of doing this
because this has clearly been something
they've thought of doing for a little
bit which is probably showing in the
internals yeah to me this says we've
been thinking about this since at least
iphone 12 and m1 max so that's good
um and actually if you look at
some of the tear downs of like this 60
inch macbook pro or the 14 inch
they look a little more friendly at
least for battery repairs there's like
tabs under the batteries now and there's
a couple less screws involved to get in
yeah which is nice i mean we opened our
first in that right to repair video we
opened an iphone 12 i believe it was
right which is the first iphone i've
ever opened and and opening that on the
inside felt like a render it was just so
neat and everything and i mean i've only
opened up a couple phones
none of them i've successfully repaired
so i'm not claiming to be an expert here
but like
that internal looked like
almost inviting almost like it would be
fun to play with yeah and i mean you got
to know what you're getting yourself
into for sure so basically what's
happening is individuals like you and me
paying customers are being added to the
group of people including uh repair
shops that have access to these
documents and parts
so if your screen breaks for example on
your phone you have the choice
to go to an apple store and have them
repair it however much that costs or to
go to an independent repair shop and
have them repair it however much that
costs
or your new option is go look online at
the guides yourself and decide you want
to do it yourself order those parts and
the guides straight from apple repair it
yourself send the parts back to apple
maybe even get a little bit of credit i
believe back on your account for the
stuff you send back for them to recycle
that's what they said and then you did
it yourself on your own time on your own
dime which is a very new option it is
and it does say in there that they
provide some sort of a like service a
repair kit manual that i think they want
you to read first and and decide if
you're comfortable doing this before you
enter in for the
the parts like get the parts mailed to
you and to actually do it yourself
and like you said there it does say that
they're offering some sort of credit for
returning the parts now i'm assuming
that means tools that they send i'm
assuming it means any parts that you
replace so that they can properly
recycle them yeah and that's great
because apple has been this company that
has talked a lot about the environment
lately but it always felt
super hypocritical when
you're so stingent on right to repair
and reusing phones and refurbishing
phones and basically using phones as
long as possible and buying new products
because that's kind of the worst thing
that can happen like cool your boxes are
half the size and you don't include a
charging brick anymore but
really the phones being able to use as
long as possible and recycling them is
what's the biggest impact we can see
yeah so overall i think a good change on
the surface but there's still more
details right so
um
the other thing i want to look at the
initial phase of the program will focus
on the most commonly serviced modules
such as the iphone's display battery and
camera yeah now on one hand that's most
iphone repairs yeah i'm pretty sure like
screen and battery are probably top one
and two right i bet that's like almost
eighty percent of repairs yeah so that
makes sense yeah in theory sure
but this also like if you talk to louis
rossman which we did in our video or if
you ask independent repair shops like
what their biggest problem with the
program is a lot of them will say like
they're so strict about what you
actually have certified access to repair
versus all the other stuff
so you know ports
buttons storage storage face id
notoriously if you repaired or if you
replaced a display with a non-apple
a genuine part yeah and it was like old
touch id too yeah they would disable
face id or touch id they recently
rectified that which is nice but like
now if you want to replace like your
port gets loose or water damaged or
something you just want to replace that
that's not one of the things covered by
apple they don't have manuals or parts
or anything for that you're still got to
go back to the apple store in apple's
world so that hasn't really changed
so again i think it's great that if my
display cracks or if my battery is
getting old i can do that myself but
that's a that's a pretty important note
which is like this isn't changing for
independent repair shops it's still true
yeah and like i think there's clearly an
optimistic side of reading this and a
pessimistic side of reading this and i
think taking a little from both is
really good like if we're talking pure
optimism like this is a step in the
right direction the fact that apple's
even even
using the term like repairability and
stuff like that it's just huge and
something like i said none of us
expected we came in this morning we were
going to record the bottles of april
fool's yeah this article pops up and
we're like okay this is now the number
one thing we're talking about today yeah
so it's interesting the pessimistic side
is
this still feels a little bit like this
is a small first step because how many
people in the the world of one of the
most popular phones in the us at least
how many of those people want to make
these repairs themselves and that's
essentially what this is opening up that
is
very very little but that's always been
the argument so the fact that this step
happened at all is really interesting
yeah and i think that i think i was just
gonna say the question i had right away
was okay why is apple doing this like
they didn't have to they never looked
like they were going to so why are they
suddenly doing this and uh you know
david made a lot of good points about
all the impending legislation around
right to repair the presidential order
there's some local orders in new york uh
a lot of stuff in europe happening where
it like seems like there's a lot of
momentum behind the movement yeah for
sure and apple's squarely in the middle
of that like target like they're the
notorious ones everyone mentions so
they're kind of getting out ahead of
that a little bit by saying look we let
you we let you repair phones we give you
the genuine parts
but we're not going to let you do too
much i think it's pretty clear this is a
like you said a step ahead this is not
listening to the customers this is uh
yeah it's not apparent
this is purely apple focus it's not tim
cook going oh you'd like to repair it
yes okay
this is the first time i'm hearing that
yeah we should do that what great
feedback you have um yeah no so i think
it's a lot of that but it's also and i
think i'll make this point near the end
of the video is like it's a great
headline it's great pr yeah for apple to
have a right to repair positive headline
which goes back into the whole like
getting ahead of legislation thing
but also i still think it makes ripples
in a sort of a positive way i still
think there are the john deeres of the
world there's all kinds of other
companies that don't have anything near
this friendly for like let's say you're
a farmer and you want to repair your
tractor like even if it's only the top
three most replaced parts that's better
than nothing yeah so we're still going
to want to see those ripples through the
industry for other companies to actually
take a bit more of a positive stance on
right to repair even just in our own
tech industry like we're seeing all the
more and more gadgets getting smaller
and smarter smaller and harder and
harder to repair and harder and harder
to find things because they're realizing
that apple's done this so well makes so
much money off of it
they like to do what apple does yeah and
it works so seeing apple go this way
it's gonna make a lot of other
tech companies go the same way yeah
that's awesome the uh the note in the
newsroom thing i want to hit one last
time is they've said that this
program will be expanding to more than
just cameras batteries and screens
they haven't provided any details on
what more things that will be maybe it
will be ports yeah and camera or face id
or maybe not i don't know
and the other thing that we don't know
because it's not anywhere in the article
is
what qualifications will there be to get
these parts and what will the prices be
prices are huge i think and and what the
um rebater
credits are when you return it as well
yeah so
that we'll have to see i mean we'll get
the details early next year when they
like start the program i'm hoping it's
not ridiculous prices there's already
memes on twitter about like oh you'd
like to repair yourself that'll be like
a hundred dollars a pop like
it should be ideally reasonable yeah um
but we all know how expensive it is for
a player like a to go to the apple store
and get a new screen if you don't have
album care it's it's very expensive so
we'll see all that is yet to be seen but
hey it's a positive right to repair
apple headline who would have thought
who would have thought that's not on my
2021 yeah my bingo card did not have
that on on the square well i'll i'll
leave that we'll go to a break on a
happy note there that's a pretty solid
spot to take a quick enjoy so we'll take
a quick quick break we'll come back we
gotta talk evs this episode of waveform
is brought to you by our crowd so it's
safe to say everyone who's looking to
diversify their portfolio wants to
invest early in the next big tech
company from personalized medicine to
quantum computing to cyber security the
big innovations are happening every day
in that world it's just about knowing
where to look that's why our crowd was
created so our crowd analyzes tech
companies across the global private
market and brings those with the
greatest growth potential directly to
you so from state of the art labs to
startups that are originating in
basements our crowd researches the high
and low for the next big thing so their
accredited investors have already put
over one billion dollars in growing tech
companies and many of our crowd's
members have benefited from their 46
ipos and sale exits of their investments
so with our crowd to tell you where to
look you can diversify your portfolio
and get in early and exciting profitable
innovations with confidence and ease so
join the fastest growing venture capital
investment community at our crowd dot
com slash wave that's ourcrowd.comwave
all right we're back
we're welcome to welcome to the car
section of the episode we have a bunch
of random stuff
in the ether that all happened to be
related to cars in some way yeah but i
think they're all really interesting so
they're all like kind of fun yeah let's
go through them you'll understand why
we're talking about these they're all
talking to tech stuffs but uh first up
lucid air
becomes motor trend's car of the year
okay cool now
i think uh
we've had a there's a large variety of
cars that have one car of the year for
motor trend like i'm not this doesn't
shock me but it is interesting
that uh that this particular one won i
think tesla model s won a couple years
ago it has its early years and i think
there was one other ev that one um i
mean listen i don't follow motor trend
that much from after this happened
there's a lot of people saying that they
haven't made some of the best choices in
the past oh yes motor trend in general
but like this is just one where
the lucid air
in both of our eyes as far as i know has
just kind of been
we've been wondering is this a fair day
or is this an actual real thing that's
going to come to market so to me we i
did a video on the lucid air riding in
it very close to fully functioning
prototype i think like air conditioning
didn't work which was like yeah
we were the first people to do that this
is yeah i was on the job for like four
months and we went over and did that and
i was so amped it was so cool yeah so
we've seen the rolling lucid air
happen many years ago right and i this
has happened before where companies are
like hey marquez come back check out our
factory hey marquez come back check out
like this new update to our interiors
and i'm like i've seen the car i've
covered the basic idea
please start shipping them yeah because
i want to see if they can actually
deliver on a couple really key things
which include 500 plus 520 miles of
range yeah now okay i saw that they had
like an initial delivery event but that
got me really amped because i was like
oh my god there's really evs out there
in the wild today with 500 miles of
range please somebody tell me there's
like a video on youtube or some test or
something where i can go watch that
happen haven't seen them yet i'm gonna
keep looking but
uh i would really like to see
like somebody go do the road trip test
or like actually get the 500 miles of
range because that if that's real that
no one's talking about it enough that's
a huge deal if
it only gets 80 of that it is still by
far the best range out of any ev that's
out there it's like ash astronomical
like range yeah compared to everything
else you know plaid plus got cancelled
and part of the reason why is it's like
that car would have had like a 500 plus
mile range also and i think elon had a
quote on twitter after it got canceled
saying you know what 400 miles is enough
like we just don't need more than we rip
that apart yeah we're like okay but like
if you could do 500 you would people
would buy it over the 400. um so the
fact that lucid is doing it allegedly i
want to see it but i think that would be
super cool so the lucid air is out there
i don't really honestly care who wins
motor trend car of the year but i think
it's interesting that it's so brand new
and barely shipping and we're giving it
these awards it's like all right well
motor trend you do you but i want to see
more of them like in that i want to see
them i mean it's something where i i
followed them on twitter from the day
that we went to visit them and i
remember like two years ago them
tweeting
and i was like i forgot i followed these
guys this is just like i think when we
first went their original
release date was supposed to be 2019
we're now end of 2021 and i think
i just cannot find somebody who has this
as an owner including in the lucid
motors subreddit
where people are really excited about it
people have reservations for it there's
a whole thread that says who has theirs
yet there's probably like 50 comments
and the closest you can get to it is i
met somebody with vin number zero zero
six and they really love it
and that's the closest i can get to
really seeing this thing in the wild
interesting yeah and you know i think a
lot of the the early delivery stuff from
all these companies are probably like
super fans or like employees and things
like that so we don't know where those
deliveries went but uh i want to bring
up two things one uh tesla model s got a
motor trend car of the year also very
early in its life cycle i think it was
like before range was proven to the
public yet probably very few deliveries
as well so i have actually no problem
with it winning the award i just think
well i want to see more of these in the
wild um but number two
the lucid air seems awesome
it seems really good it's very expensive
that should just it is say that right
off the top it's like 140 000. we've
always kind of known that because like
it was very
they very specifically told us like that
top end model with the bucket seats in
the back that like that was like a
luxury
like
rideshare car that wasn't really
somewhere between that and like a
maybach yeah like you want to be in the
back seat of the yes
exactly and for that it is awesome and
for that 160 000 is probably not that
crazy if you're looking towards like
bentleys and stuff like that yeah
with the
the specs that this thing has
it's crazy i think it's a good-looking
car it kind of looks like a like
updated lincoln which i don't
know but again
yeah yeah um
there's some really really cool things
1111 horsepower
1390 pound foot of torque like imagine a
maybach 2 thousand horsepower what
there's just like
some really really crazy numbers about
this and my issue with it winning though
is like
i get that they're trying to do things
that are like
breaking trends or like these big new
things in the category
we
are starting to see rivien
be delivered right now and to me rivian
like hits this a little better and it
wasn't even in the finalists yeah yeah i
think if lucid actually does
is delivering and delivers a little more
like it could have been next year's
where rivian seems a couple steps ahead
right and is also this pickup truck
that's coming out evie
really really great stuff on it
i'm somewhere between giving them credit
for not being faraday and just like
never delivering anything
and wanting to see more like maybe i
mean rivian's also barely starting
deliveries but just a little bit more i
want to see them in public hands youtube
tests yeah like we see like maybe plaid
model s is like barely out now
to that level maybe um so i'm sort of
stuck in between them but at the end of
the day i would love to drive like a
finished version i'm excited for lucid
and i think why i've always been so
excited for lucid is because
when i started was right when you got
back from ces where you test drove the
faraday and it was like the completely
gutted interior you know like
absolutely nothing and then we directly
went to lucid where i was like wow
they're so far ahead of faraday here and
it felt so much more promising and it
felt like something that was right
around the corner an hour four years
later and
waiting yeah so i hope this doesn't
sound mean against lucid i'm really
excited to try it but it just felt weird
i think there's more
remax in the wild probably right if
we're talking about that guy saying vin
number zero zero six uh-huh
i can almost imagine there's more rimacs
out in the wild so technically so the
rimac concept one had i think let me
look at it it was a single digit number
i thought it was double digit but in the
teens
uh they made student hammond crash like
one of them
the what
he crashed
oh oh one of them okay yeah yeah so the
rimac concept one they only ever made
eight
wow okay six have been probably wrong
about that six have been sold
the one that wasn't sold is the one we
drew
and the eighth one is the one that was
crashed okay so there is only
uh
yeah only eight ever made uh and then
the concept two or the navera that's
gonna be like 18 right or something yeah
i don't believe there's any deliveries
yet but they're doing a lot of tours
with it and it's coming soon
nevertheless not only that was a pure
yeah i thought i was being smart i mean
like
the closest i've seen is
vin number 006
so there could actually be more concept
ones out there but i feel like there's
probably more lucids out there and we
just haven't seen them i think uh john
rettinger said he's on a reserve list
he's in california and they've been
getting them sooner because it's a
california-based company so if you're
listening to this or if you're watching
this and you have one please get in
touch please get in touch
all right we also want to talk about uh
another kind of quirky story with the
mustang mock egt
i spent a couple days with it here
actually i didn't have a ton of time to
like really push it because it's just
sort of driving it around yeah observing
how new it feels it is the fastest
version of the mustang machi
um but there was an edmonds review of
the maki gt that discovered
that it is only able to ever put down
five consecutive seconds of full power
full power yeah and so they discovered
this because they're doing track tests
on it yeah versus the model y
performance because
similar sized cars both the like higher
end sportier performance models love
them a lot of praise for the maki like
in general like it's a very well selling
car
despite some weird quality control
issues which like every new car kind of
has at this point like
better suspension by a lot of people's
standards i think it drives just as well
if not better than the performance model
y the the guy in edmond said the overall
package
until he discovered that felt like a way
more cohesive track car right then the
model y now
it's a whole other debate about whether
people buying these cars are taking them
to traffic it's a crossover it's it's
whatever i don't even wanna it's fine
but
five consecutive seconds of power was
the limit according to ford because they
wanted to preserve battery life
how did they not build a button into the
software that lets you disable yeah like
track mode tracks that away yeah i don't
care about preserving battery life if
i'm on a track even if you are a track
like if you're someone who brings it to
the track you're probably still only on
the track
at most 10 of the total time you're ever
driving this car and that's probably
even being super conservative like
it's not going to like vastly
deteriorate this battery um yeah and you
know you're saying if there's a big
debate on how many people bring these to
the track i would argue more people
bring the g this the mustang
maki gt
to a track like you're probably buying
this because you want to bring it to a
track mustang already has the legacy
whether you want to put this in the
mustang family or not i know that's
super controversial
but if you are talking about a mustang
a car that is just known for performance
and known for people wanting to get the
most performance out of it and then you
also had a gt model like this is meant
for a track this is meant to get the
most power and then you just
cut it at five seconds just feels like a
slap in the face it was odd it was like
they were driving it and they would come
out of a straightaway and they'd get
five seconds straight and then they
would out of the next straightaway not
have to turn part and they'd wonder why
and then they'd wait a bit and then
they'd give it full power again but then
on the next straightaway they'd have
only like one second of power left out
of the straight and it was like what is
going on with this car so props to
edmund for like putting the car on a
track and actually finding that but yeah
ford just confirmed like oh yeah we're
just we're just doing that to save
battery life yeah ford if you're
listening you can push ota updates to
the ford machi i know you can
just add a button for track mode so that
you can not have your power nuked on
this fun car you've made that's my only
advice uh i dug the yellow that they
gave us it was like a papaya i
i think it's mclaren orange basically i
thought it was more yellow i felt like
it was more yellow a little brighter
yeah i think adam will put something up
on the screen and if i'm wrong you
better color correct it to look like i'm
right it's a good-looking car i kind of
dug it i liked it more than some of the
other colors we've had because the gt
also they put like the black grille on
the front even though it's plastic it
does look sportier it's got a little
more like finish just make it mac
matte not mac yeah make it matte make it
matte that would have been nice i mean
it's going to catch bugs no matter what
yes but it looks good cool maki gt's in
the wild by the way random fun fact i
think i said this on the last episode
the rivian is
faster
is just actually what is the maki gt
is your 0-60 and 3.5 that's what the
f-150 does right the riffian does in 3.0
what wait it's a truck ford make
even going past that how can ford make
an f-150 go 3.5 and not make the car
that's probably half the weight gord
makes both yeah i guess they just put
more power bigger bigger motors in the
f-150 yeah i mean i'm sure you're not
sport driving an f-150 it's just
hilarious that it goes that fast now i
want to put like f-150 motors in like
the mini cooper ev and watch it just
take like that's like the future of
that's the future of mods i think like
before because everyone would be like oh
i have a custom built engine in this
like sleeper chassis like you have no
idea how fast this like 68 mustang goes
now it's like yeah i put quad motors and
a huge battery in the hummer eevee
regular looking ev and it crushes what
was the hummer ev 0 to 60. too fast it
was awesome
under 10 seconds i think that's a safety
hazard that thing is it's already a
safety hazard that yeah i honestly think
that's going to cause more accidents
than any other car i just looked it up
and it's quoted at three seconds flat
that's faster than the arch audi e-tron
rs if i'm ever driving and i see a
hummer ev i'm taking an alternate route
i need my ways to direct me to avoid
hummer evs because nope
at no point will i trust that thing
anyone driving that on the road when
they deliver that i can't wait to see it
it's going to be wild
okay here's another weird weird one yeah
tesla model 3s and model ys right now
have been spotted being delivered
without wireless charging or the usbc
ports but not just like gone from the
car
the cutouts for the ports are still
there they're just delivering the car
without the ports and they're blaming
the chip shortage for not having the
part ready yet and they'll retrofit it
for free in the future but they're not
telling people
they're just giving you the car hey
here's your car would you like to accept
delivery uh it's missing the usb ports
which is like i have a picture here in
the dock which adam can put on the thing
but it's like
it's a usb-c port it's small
no one's like peering into it to make
sure the actual connector's there like
i'm sure people i would not doubt if
there are people who have this car that
have their their phone plugged in like
right now no idea and like not paying
attention and wondering like oh i must
have not connected it all the way after
my drive i mean wireless charging not
working i think that's one of my
favorite features of the car it just
sits right up in the front where the gps
would be and it just wireless charges
the phone so that's how the first big
post i saw about this happened was
somebody had it on the wireless charging
mat and i mean like we're at the point
where most people throw it down on
wireless charger and don't really
look to see if it's charging and then
they'll notice later so the guy in the
post
noticed that
noticed it again and then went to go
plug it in and i'm assuming just didn't
feel the snap or anything and then
realize it was just straight up missing
it yeah and then when they went to the
tesla service center the people there
said that
they will retrofit it in december it
will be free
but the fact that he had to go back to a
service center to guess that and then
there's a ton of comments in that reddit
thread and there's multiple people
reporting this that they're just and
like sure there is a chip shortage
it just seems insane to me to one even
deliver these
and to to
not say anything yeah if i was tesla
like okay put yourself in their shoes i
don't think you stop delivering the cars
but you have to tell people i think the
best way they could have done it while
still delivering is
hey you know we're having an issue with
the chip shortage you can still take
your delivery now you can wait to take
your delivery later if you do take it
now free supercharging for three months
and will retrofit in december well
here's the thing about you know keeping
cars around they don't have a lot of
space like they're building cars as fast
as they can and they're flying off the
shelves or however you want to phrase it
and so if they offer people the option
to refuse delivery because of it which i
guess they do
they're just going to sell the car to
someone else who will take it without
the ports so they're just like
they're just making the car without the
ports and it's like here do you want it
yes or no and if you say yes here you go
we'll retrofit it later if you say no
someone else will probably take it
without the ports it's really hard to
get these right now but
tell people tell people that they don't
have the
ports yeah so i just can't like
i know tesla gets a lot of
a lot of flack for a lot of things that
happens and they clearly like people try
and make stories out of things and
usually they're blown up this one feels
kind of like the opposite where i'm just
i can't imagine
a legacy car manufacturer doing this and
not having like
what is going on you're the like a lot
of weird queries i think if the f150
came out with this people would go
bananas it's really it's it's like uh
yeah no i it's it's weird it's really
strange a weird issue it's i feel like
you gotta at least offer like a little
something yeah tesla's tesla's also been
one of the companies that's like
been somewhat unaffected by these
shortages like they seem to be
delivering cars just fine like there's
lots of cars that need ships that are
just like oh we can't make as many
hyundai launchers as we thought we could
this year they all need the same chip
and there's a million of them yeah so
tesla's been like sort of cruising along
seemingly unaffected but it's like this
is a big deal like ports simple things
hard to get so that was sort of a wacky
story but yeah hopefully if you
if you have a model 3 or model y
pull over and check out whether your
ports work or not and if they don't
definitely uh
definitely get in touch with your
service center yeah get those ports for
sure okay so that's that's some of the
weirdest stories
let's get into
some new ev announcements that have come
out there's one from
let's see subaru subaru and nissan which
one do you want yes sir so both of them
are like their cars have been announced
but we didn't see much of them these are
like almost the full announcements for
it um i mean i'm going to pick subaru
let's talk super a little subaru fanboy
so bias warning although um
2023 subaru sultera yeah suv
yeah like crossover ish
to be honest i think it looks so
do i like it man you really just are uh
asking the the hard question right off
the bat
i don't think i can just say yes or no
on this interesting what do you want to
say so like right off the bat do you
like it
normally means design right yeah i like
how this looks
it's fine it's fine and then you gotta
look at like specs and price yeah so the
design i don't hate it but i don't love
it it's like pretty typical i feel like
the crosstrek and the impreza has kind
of been going this a little harder line
route my biggest complaint about it is
i've always loved
how much of a hatchback you get with
like an impreza or crosstrek as it goes
all the way to the trunk of the car
where this has that really really hard
slant kind of like a honda cross tour i
think it's called right don't love that
i think you're kind of losing space
um i wish you were a tad bigger but
again i don't hate it there's some
design things that aren't my favorite
but i kind of think the color was kind
of weird they announced it and also i
think maybe in a black or a gray or a
white it might look a lot better
um i don't mind it yeah that's fine at
all yeah it's there it's not a head
turner so then then the specs
we've got a starting price of 37 000.
where do you see that did i write that i
have that on car and driver
2023 subaru sotera starting at 37 000
wait what
hold on hold on this is
i did not have a price in here and i
have a lot of price speculation and is
this real this is estimated wait hold on
it says est let me let me see what they
mean by est so they think it'll start in
the high 30 000 this is not official
from subaru okay subaru hasn't announced
pricing yet okay so let's go with that's
fluttering let's go with that no pricing
but estimated somewhere in the high 30s
there's a spec we know is range right
let's yeah let's talk range let's talk
specs first and then uh
pricing i think i have like a lot of
thoughts on okay let's let's do that
okay so yeah
range i've been super pessimistic about
it i think in a previous episode i guess
240 miles
and i even thought that may have been on
the high side instead
we have a single motor and a dual motor
the
single motor has 329 miles of range and
the dual motor has 286 miles of range
now just to be clear here this is wltc
standard which is a standard in japan
and generally is
a little overrated versus an epa rating
so the epa rating will probably knock
that down a bit but we're still talking
at least three 300 miles of range okay
on the single motor single motor like
lower performance okay yeah yeah which
blue blew my expectations out of the
water i mean we've seen way too many
legacy car manufacturers come in making
a v with a
abysmal range
i usually will see here's a new ev it's
available now it has 210 miles of range
or i'll say i'll see here's a new ev
it'll have 315 miles of range it's
coming out in 2024 which is like oh
that's a good number but it's gonna be
three years too late which is when we'll
all expect even higher numbers yeah so
to have a new solterra assumingly coming
out somewhat soon and with 300 miles of
range is pretty good i'm very very
excited for that i think that's awesome
awesome
um let's see it says it supports dc fast
charging up to 150 kilowatts they didn't
say about how long it would take to
charge your battery but
we're lucky here and this is built on
the same platform as the bz4x which is
from toyota because they partnered with
this got it they look very similar bz4x
and toyota claim
that will charge 30 minutes to 80
capacity so i mean we're looking at
pretty standard about a 70 kilowatt hour
battery if if you know the network
actually turns on so that's always
something yeah
question yes um we have subaru talking
about their x mode which is a pretty
standard company-wide thing it's an
all-wheel drive control system and you
know subaru is known for their all-wheel
drive that'll only be in the dual motor
i'm assuming so i mean right it didn't
specifically say that but i can only
imagine okay um
so when it comes to
i have like two main gripes or questions
i guess that aren't answered quite here
um
number one is price
if we're pricing this out
40 000 feels like kind of the sweet spot
of
now that we're seeing the model 3 creep
up in price to like 46
if we're talking about a car
kind of
similar to it i think the sole terra is
a little bigger clearly does not have
the performance that the model 3 does
but
six thousand dollars cheaper
and most likely we'll have the tax break
because it's a new company doing evs
that seems pretty awesome and similar
range i mean like the main thing we're
talking here is range right when we're
comparing
i think forty thousand could get quite a
few people to make the choice if they're
between
a model three and a soul terra okay
if some the thing is is like subaru is
very well priced for a lot of their cars
um at least i think so and i do think a
lot of people think so i bought my
impreza in 2013 for 21 all-wheel drive
great car crosstreks enforcers and stuff
kind of start around like 26 which is
great great pricing so 40 000 is a big
jump there if this could somehow be at
35 000 i i'll buy it i will 100 buy it
if this is at 35 000.35 you're in i
don't think it will that would be the
starting base price probably at best yes
and i kind of have wonder price wise on
which model will be which but um
i'm worried though that this will be
closer to like 45 and then i think it's
they will only get sales for subaru fans
you are not gonna have the person going
to it over the model 3 when you're at
the same price yeah and maybe this is
people cross-shopping i don't know if
it'll be model 3 or model y more i guess
crossovers model y which is a little
more pricey but when you're at the same
price as model y you have to offer
somewhat the same stuff to be considered
if you're priced above model y you have
to be better at something yeah which
seems like just the subaru things and
being a subaru and having like maybe
more range or sorry maybe more storage
or uh crosstrek type features model y
well the hard thing is if you compare it
to model y because it's a crossover this
is like a weird this feels like the at
least by the pictures i haven't seen
full size but it looks like the lower
end of like a size of a crossover
whereas like model y feels like it's
closer to like compact suv and it's this
really really confusing but model y is
58 starting i think
so like
i
no way sultaira's
that so i like kind of want to compare
it to model three more but yeah you do
get some more room probably than a model
three yeah it's in a weird spot so if
you undercut if you undercut it you just
got to do a couple things as well
obviously it doesn't have a supercharger
network but that's an advantage that
they can take if you're cross-shopping
model y and soltera i think zoltara is
going to have a great chance even at 45
to you know if you are not a tesla fan
or you're not a subaru fan you are just
looking for an ev around that size i
think it will split it pretty well which
is all all
companies need to do now is split the
price split the difference for a tesla
to that um if you're looking for a model
three or soltera i think the sole terror
has to be
35 to 40 to really sway the model 3
buyer over
to that for saving enough money let's
let's make a bet over under
would you take over under
or sorry would you guess that the
solterra's announced price for the base
model will be over under 39
over
okay i'll take that bet you'll go under
i'm hoping i'm wrong or i'm hoping i'm
right and it is under but now see if we
really want to make this bet interesting
if i win you buy me a solterra and if i
lose i'll buy myself a soul terror
because that sounds like a good that
sounds like a good bet i don't know if
i'm gonna agree to it right now but it's
a solid um but so now my next big thing
kind of loops into pricing and that is
i'm confused at what is going to be the
more expensive version of this what is
going to be the base because
in every single eevee
range is like the number one priority
right yep now
subaru is known for all-wheel drive
their thing is that essentially every
car comes with all-wheel drive super
great price point for it
you go to colorado and like 90 of the
cars in the shopping the shopping mall
parking lot are going to be a subaru
because of the all-wheel drive yeah
driving snow all that stuff yeah
so if you are now buying a subaru ev
what is your choice are you prioritizing
all-wheel drive or are you prioritizing
range because the all-wheel drive is
about 50 miles less range according to
wltc standard the single motor will be
cheaper the single motor with longer
range will be cheaper and the extra
motor which costs a lot more which has
better performance but has all-wheel
drive will be more expensive despite
lower range
real quick
what you're saying is correct but like
the
the single motor has a higher horsepower
per motor
whereas the dual motor yeah there's they
are technically each motor is less
performance but the total is larger
exactly definitely i believe that that
base model will be the single motor
front wheel drive with a longer range
because that gets you longer range the
all-wheel drive one will cost more it
will have better performance because of
the higher overall power and all-wheel
drive but
it will have slightly less range
interest um
man if the if single motor could be 35
and dual motor could be 40 that would be
really awesome yeah also dual motor
performance though is not going to be
anything close to a model three no no no
no like we're all i think i hope we're
all on the same page that we're not
comparing it like that yeah um but yeah
i'm excited well the other one that i'm
less excited about
but it exists so i'm happy about it i
think it's important still yeah is
nissan's upcoming electric suv
so nissan is able to claim that they are
a leader in the ev space because of how
long the leaf has been around sure i'll
give you that so now in 2023 they're
going to drop what's called the aria
a-r-i-y-a it'll start at 47
and it will have
did they say the range you can see
about 300 miles of range so yeah 300
miles of range for 47k you can go up in
performance and also up in price there's
a 60k option yeah with 265 miles of
range but a little more power
it looks
uh fine okay if you were already buying
a nissan rogue this this looks like a
nissan yeah you know what this looks
like it looks like an eevee nissan which
is fine it's i don't like it you've
brought up a pricing of subarus in the
past this is an expensive nissan
60k for a nissan is a big ass yeah can i
look up what a nissan rogue is sure yeah
like a nissan rogue starts at 26. yeah
and i'm i believe
i just want to make sure i'm on the
murano's 32 the rogue is 26.
it's not is there 24 to 26 like there's
not a lot of brand new 60 000 nissans
yeah this will start at 47 which is you
know still pretty premium for a nissan
yeah the leaf if i talk about the leaf
anymore i'm getting sad but like they
did they did hop on that early and lots
of people have leafs because they don't
have long commutes it had like a
100 mile range at best and it was like
all right you can drive this as your
commuter car back and forth and like
have a totally good time never pay for
gas again great but when we talk about
like the inspiring like let's replace
every car on the road with an electric
version you need a couple more versions
than just a leaf so this is something
else i do they're accepting deposits i
don't know if this is going to start
getting cross shopped with model y it's
47 so it's cheaper yeah there are two
main things i have out of this one's
good ones makes no sense okay 47 000
for
this
buy pictures this looks bigger than like
a sole tara so i think this is a direct
competitor yeah the model y yeah 300
miles of range is also meant at 10 000
cheaper
there's def they're gonna sway some
people okay
yeah i think that's really cool again
really happy that we see another 300
mile range i'm so glad we're actually
seeing these legacy car manufacturers
like
putting real miles on their range the
thing i don't get is who on earth wants
a performance
nissan rogue ev essentially i don't get
why you'd spend an extra like 15k yeah
the performance version interesting it
doesn't look like a sporty car it
doesn't look like something that you're
going to go
drag race or even just like i guess
that's the thing about evs is they all
naturally are able to offer performance
and instant torque and the base model
will have that
yeah
true like enough for what you need so in
main in normal everyday driving like the
cv thing the best thing about it is
merging onto a highway like you don't
feel stuck yeah but the base model will
have that like it'll feel better than a
regular nissan rogue which i by the way
if you haven't noticed i'm comparing the
rogue to this thing because they look
very similar i just don't get why you'd
pay an extra 15 000 for this like
performance version of this there's a
lot of questions that we didn't think
had there were like solutions without a
problem like who wants a crossover
mustang ev but here we are and like this
might be another one of those where
we're like looking over the obvious
answer of like oh yeah i've always
wanted like a faster like i love my
nissan and i love this the ui for some
reason but i really wanted an ev version
with more storage like here we are yeah
i don't know
there are nissans that people mod and
like to do stuff it's just
as far as i know it's not the rook it's
a smaller group if you have a modded
nissan rogue
show send us some videos or pictures
because i'd love to see it but i'm i'm
not really sure that those really exist
but like you know good point here
ten thousand dollars cheaper than a
model y
for the people who don't care about the
model y performance and who are are able
to
you know
not have to use the tesla supercharging
network right ten thousand dollars is a
big big price jump price difference so
yeah so we'll see next to your car so
that's that's it for evs thanks for
sticking along with our rambling i i
thought all of those were pretty fun
pretty interesting even pretty important
yeah tv podcast exactly
wave can we label this one where the ve
and wave is switched
yeah switch the ev now it's the waveform
the waveform we can do that for april
fools or something but um i just have
like one psa i want to end this on every
year we talk about black friday a little
bit but we always talk about it on
friday
where it's too late so we're just gonna
do our little psa if we're looking
forward to anything but like
i think the main thing i always tell
people on black friday is
go into it with a plan we all are tech
heads here we all want to get tech
cheaper we all know tech gets cheaper on
black friday
but stop going on amazon or best buy and
just like buying things because they're
on sale do your research
pick something that you really want hope
that that goes on sale
buy it on sale yeah going to whatever
retailer and buying what's on sale is
how it's designed for you you should go
in with your own plan and then buy
things also i'll give a little psa if
you're holiday shopping the chip
shortage and supply shortages are very
real so if you are not yet getting stuff
for gifts for family or whatever think
about that earlier than usual
as in like right use your pride pauses
yeah that's it that's it for my psa
but yeah i uh
i actually with a new house and stuff i
do have some i
i'm ready for black friday i haven't
bought anything for a really long time
so you're gonna be part of the like the
crowd running for the tv section no no
no online
on my couch in my slippers under a
blanket i don't do this i'm looking for
a new gaming monitor because i haven't
upgraded since probably black friday
like five years ago okay really excited
about that i was ready to look for the
logitech g pro super light but now they
just came out with the logitech g303
wireless which i ordered already that's
the collab with shroud
i'm so excited that was like my favorite
that was my first gaming mouse i had two
or three of them then they discontinued
them and i was
very very sad
whatever that won't come up and just
like some smart home stuff there's this
really good tp uh
like smart switches hopefully those will
go on sale they're not too expensive but
when you're buying them for the majority
of your house it adds you want to add a
bunch
and like
i mean you should probably be looking at
these too like all the ego
electric
house tools like leaf blower weed
whacker all that stuff
if that went on sale i'm yeah i'm buying
that up yeah it's gonna be sick i'm
excited all right get your uh get your
retail on ladies and gentlemen thanks
for listening to this episode of
waveform it's been a fun time make sure
to watch that right to repair video when
it's out if you haven't seen it already
but
that's been it catch you guys in the
next one
peace waveform was produced by adam
molina we are partnered with vox media
and our intra-outro music was created by
vayne silver