hey what's up mkbhd here welcome to an
episode
of the waveform podcast it is tectober
yeah i am so tired i'm sure you are dude
but where are we uh we're your hosts i'm
marquez i'm andrew and it is you're
hearing us on a friday but we're
recording us a little bit earlier in the
week and this week we had an apple event
on monday yep we had a samsung a google
see how tired i am yeah we had a google
event on tuesday we had a samsung event
on wednesday like today when we're
recording as we're just getting straight
into here exactly
and we have a lot to talk about i think
they're kind of in order of excitement
because well for me anyway as a creator
there's some really interesting stuff in
all three but really right from the top
the apple october event was pretty hype
it's what it's what y'all have been
asking for yeah for a long time yeah
exactly so i made a video about all the
stuff and i opened the video saying like
all right i'm gonna try to stay calm i'm
gonna try to stay neutral but i was
really excited for these laptops like i
this is
i've edited videos for a long time
and over a decade at this point and
there got to a point where the cameras
and the footage got past the level that
i could acceptably edit on a laptop
and i was kind of sad because like i
really i like editing on a laptop i like
editing anywhere but i also really like
crispy 8k footage yeah
and it got to a point where it's being
like detrimental to the production of
our stuff because i mean we would fly
out to an event
you would edit and like i would wake up
the next morning getting ready to go to
the plane and your eyes would just be
like bloodshot like marquez did you go
to sleep you're like no i was
babysitting the export waiting for it to
render so that's what developed the
travel imac yeah and imac pro so i think
you know we'll get we'll get more into
it but i think the big thing here will
be like are these laptops going to
replace the travel imac yeah i've told
the story before but i'll just tell
abbreviated version the first time i
started uh editing on final cut pro i
was using premiere on a
macbook pro and john morrison from tld
was using final cut pro on a macbook pro
we both went and shot that kobe
interview in staples center in la he
shot the behind the scenes video i had
the main interview we both finished
editing around the same time we both
started exporting around the same time
and then we were like let's go grab
dinner oh wait a second his video is
done exporting already he found a
mistake in his video went back corrected
it exported it again meanwhile i'm like
like 16 done exporting and i'm like i
this is this is bad so i had to switch
to final cut pro and i got a lot more
speed out of that but still when you go
like red footage when you go exporting
these transcoding these huge files
it takes a very long time and i usually
do have to sit and babysit like a six
hour export i mean you're like an
anomaly in the sense that no matter how
many times you upgrade you find ways to
break it and stuff i mean even the mac
pro some days has has its moments uh
yeah you need to be like hired by by
apple or google or any any tech company
to just like test it to dress test their
stuff well that's what i'm here for so
we got a couple things at the event uh
there's some other audio products right
before the macbook pros there was the
airpods 3. when it comes to listening to
music on the go
airpods deliver a magical wireless
experience
which we'll be testing uh they're
essentially
airpods pro
minus the silicon tips and and the noise
cancellation the good stuff yeah so yeah
so but it's cheaper so it's 179 and they
also all now have a magsafe compatible
case that slaps on the back which is
kind of cool they actually quietly
updated all of the airpods with wireless
charging to a magsafe compatible
wireless charging case but that's a cool
new feature we'll check those out yeah
it seems like it's basically just
airpods
two with the airpods bro case and has
spatial audio right and design yeah and
space yeah yeah yeah
they've never fit in my ears without the
silicon tubes they some people i'm so
jealous because they fit perfectly in
their ears without the silicon and they
just run around and somehow it's magic
and good for them i'm not one of those
years i think um like
anc and uh transparency mode is awesome
but
i would like the main reason i buy the
pros is just for the silicone tip so
they would actually fit so like i would
be totally down for i don't need spatial
audio give me the ones that fit at the
179 price point i'd be so much happier
maybe someday but they also uh we got
some new colors for the homepod mini not
really too crazy but some yellow orange
and blue so it's just black and white
before
that's pretty sweet and white sorry
i'm assuming it's space gray i don't
know it was almost black whatever yeah
so there's some color in the lineup now
we also got a new lower tier of apple
music called apple i guess
apple music voice or voice something
yeah it was a little confusing actually
at first uh basically just sounds like
you're triggering all of your audio
experience from siri i'm not really sure
if that's
a way to get more people to use apple
music are there people out there with
like only a home pod but no iphone so
they need to listen to music i'm not
sure
i think the final we were all very
confused we thought at first it was an
extra five dollars just to get siri to
work with apple music which would be
weird yeah um but so i think what we
finally found out is that it's basically
just like a cheaper because apple
music's 10 bucks a month right so this
is five bucks a month so then it's just
a cheaper way of if you i guess only
ever really play music um when
uh like
you're using your homepod and stuff like
that if you're mostly playing i guess in
a home atmosphere through that through
siri i guess maybe apple carplay
probably would take it as well sure you
really don't like the um
it's a thing yeah it's it's a thing now
but then they got to uh
they got to the product we were all
waiting for
the 19 apple polishing microfiber cloth
beautiful i can't believe it's on sale
separately yeah it's basically the cloth
that came with the uh pro display yeah
yeah
it's got a whole compatibility list on
there that was so good if you guys if
you haven't seen yet quinn posted it or
you can just go to apple site but the
polishing cloth somebody took the time
to put in the com what it's compatible
with and the best part is it's not
compatible with all iphones it's
incredible
i almost wonder
if there's something specific like i was
trying to figure out if that's when like
gorilla glass started or ceramic shield
started it it ends right around the
first iphone se and nothing before that
is
quote-unquote compatible yeah you gotta
have the latest ios to use this
microfiber yeah right ios 13 only um but
yeah so that was good but but for real
m1 macbooks m1 pro and m1 max
so
i don't know i guess i'll start with the
chips then get to the macbook pros
because there's it's a whole lot all
together and they're a package so uh m1
pro and m1 max are the upgraded versions
higher end versions of apple silicon
i've also explained all this in an mkbhd
full video but essentially they're much
bigger gpus yeah much much beefier on
the gpu side the m1 stuff was great it
wasn't super heavy on the gpu because
these are replacing machines that didn't
have dedicated gpu so it's integrated
that's cool now i get these big gpu
cores so uh m1 pro 14 or 16 gpu cores
much bigger gpu and it's a physically
larger chip going into this machine
and then there's m1 max which again is
10 cpu cores but it's doubling that gpu
again so an even physically bigger chip
but way more gpu and we're starting to
get these crazy numbers like the memory
bandwidth numbers are 200 or 400
gigabytes per second yeah uh up to 32
gigs of memory on m1 pro or 64 gigs on
m1 max
i think they're being equated to like a
rtx
3080 a desktop rtx 38. that i'm sure a
lot of people are rolling their eyes at
that point it's just pure numbers right
now exactly no one really has compared
them or benchmarked them against
anything and if we want to compare real
quick the m1
you know the original m1 that is eight
cpu cores seven or eight gpu cores
68 gigs of memory bandwidth and 16 gigs
of max memory so we're talking like
double or triple between them one pro
and then one max yeah so i'm a huge fan
of m1 especially in this computer i've
been dailying for a while the 13 inch m1
macbook pro because of its efficiency
it's got incredible battery life but
it's also got great single core great
snappy performance so that's all good
but these are just much more powerful
chips so they're appropriate for higher
end machines and the only thing they
showed them up in is macbook pros
i was kind of curious if we'd see an
upgraded imac like a 27-inch imac or
like or even a mac mini or a mac mini
exactly i i could see it in some other
stuff too but it's just macbook pros
that we got maybe there's another event
coming for the rest of that stuff
but okay the macbook pros m1 pro and m1
max represent a huge leap forward in
silicon for pro systems and our teams
have been hard at work designing a brand
new macbook pro that can take full
advantage of that incredible performance
and capability i love it they they
basically just redesigned they went
backwards by like five years and
re-imagined everything
and re-imagined everything about it
re-reimagined yeah so uh 14-inch and
16-inch macbook pro
um
really liking both of the designs so the
design first of all it does have
a slightly new shape and it really
reminds me of like uh like those older
clam shells like not the ibook the power
books yeah the power books and i think
that's very intentional and the whole
design sort of fits around that so it's
cool the footprints are about the same
as the 13-inch and 16-inch macbook pro
um
but we have
ports now first of all i'm trying to
figure out where to start we have ports
yeah love the ports we have magsafe
has a charger up to 140 watts from the
brick which is very large it is very
large but we were talking about how
there are cell phones out there now with
without charging true
but like magsafe i've
i never really used long term a laptop
with magsafe i kind of joined right
around the uspc all that happening okay
you can still charge laptops with usbc
by the way people are wondering that
okay but if you want that fastest
charging magsafe is back
can i just quickly say with a braided
cable also which i'm very excited for my
old magsafe cable when i was in college
i was
like doing work one day on it and i
heard a pop and smelled smoke and the
cable like next to the computer had like
frayed and somehow like shorted it or
something like that and i had to go get
a new charger so wow i'm hoping the
braided cable will
fix that well the other good thing is
it's separate from the brick so if that
happens you can just get rid of the
cable or the brick which used to be like
that also but like you i think it
shorted the brick due to i don't know
exactly what it was but yeah that's bad
news it's not fun having to spend 80
bucks on a new charger when you're in
college yeah for sure everything this
one i hope it's good it should give you
uh half battery in half an hour which is
pretty sweet um so that's one good port
then we got full-size hdmi out of
nowhere i don't have a lot to say about
hdmi but it's back it is always a good
thing to have because having a spare a
random hdmi to c dongle is way less
common than like a just like c expansion
dongle or an sd card like reader or
something right there's no like single
hdmi dongle it's always part of another
big there are some it's just like no one
has one just like laying around really
we're a whole tech studio and if we ever
need that yet it's very hard to find
somewhere in here we have like one
hidden somewhere so it's that's good to
be back i'm we're not sure if it's hdmi
2.1 or what the what the spec is of it
yet but fingers crossed there
then we have three thunderbolt 4 ports
so that's good
no full size usb but there is
a
headphone jack which supports how did it
fire impedance well it's
but it supports higher impedance
headphones now okay which is a very pro
touch because higher impedance
headphones would typically require you
to plug in via usb a separate dac which
then you'd plug the headphones into so
not only are you saving a port
theoretically if this internal dac is
really good but you still have like your
head it just plugs right into the laptop
and that's nice and convenient so that's
cool
and then the sd card slot is back
and an sd card slot enabling fast access
to media that's what i was really pumped
about i saw that slot on the side of the
laptop i was like this is game changer
people are going to get this laptop game
changer game changer something they took
away from us
that's the fun part about all this is
like we used to have literally
everything i've just talked to you about
other than the high impedance headphones
all these ports used to be on the
macbook pro so
usb is here it's faster with thunderbolt
4 but like we've had usb for a while
yeah thank you for hdmi thanks for sd
cards a lot
we have to give apple kind of like i'm
not giving them full credit because they
didn't admit how wrong they were by
taking it all away from us but they did
bring it back so i'm not gonna like jump
from the rooftops that this is like some
groundbreaking reimagined um
but like we're very happy they're back
let us be happy yeah the language in the
keynote was really funny love watching
them just like those yeah those moments
of like
pros appreciate the flexibility of
multiple ports just like you hear them
say this and you're like yeah but you're
the ones who just yeah anyway you did
this i mean if you want to talk about
things that they're fixing that they
caused the problem for let's go to the
keyboard now of the yep the new it's so
much better yeah so uh typically we have
a macbook pros with a touch bar which is
a half size
strip of touch screen at the top
mixed reception wasted space yeah i
thought it had potential honestly when
it first came out i was like oh this
could be really cool if developers make
cool stuff here and if this like starts
to but it didn't turn out to be that
yeah i think there are very few people
who love the touch bar right so they're
coming out of the woodwork now that it's
gone exactly but you know pick them up
now while you can because it's gone and
we have replaced it with a full-size row
of actual buttons function key buttons
um never seen before yeah never before
seen in a laptop uh no but there's still
touch id over on the far right hand
corner which is nice and then all those
buttons are real and physical and i
actually like the keyboard the keyboard
is like in set inside the laptop and
that whole keyboard well is black now
which is a subtle thing but it again
sort of has retro vibes and is a it's a
new it makes the new design look
different and i like it it's really
funny because we were setting up uh
an older
macbook just for for adam to use for the
week and
i was using the old butterfly keyboards
like it was right after the event and i
was just like we've come so far they
really just destroyed this laptop before
finally fixing it they did everything
wrong i feel like to get to that point
it was definitely like boiling the frog
what's the saying or like if you slowly
you've never heard this oh like if you
just put a frog in a pot of water and
slowly turn up the heat it won't realize
that it's boiling until it's dying
and no animals were harmed
this is a common thing because i i've
used all of these keyboards for the past
like five years and i never really
thought like every year it would get a
little bit shallower and a little bit
shallower and i was like wow the
keyboard is a little shallower it's kind
of annoying and then the next year i'd
be like oh the camber is a little
shallower again that's kind of annoying
but now that i'm using these and i went
back to the shallowest one oh my god
that keyboard is bad i want in the final
review i want you to like side by side
like typing test on them or something
yeah cause just setting that up like
just typing in a couple passwords and
and stuff it was brutal it's rough i i
can't believe they got that thin so they
definitely boil the water on me but i'm
glad i'm glad they're back again so
keyboard thumbs up
uh and then the last big upgrade i mean
they did improve the speakers and the
microphone but the last big upgrade is
definitely the screens yeah so like i
said 14 inch and 16 inch in the same
uh
form factor essentially it's slightly
different dimensions but as the 13 inch
and 16 inch outgoing
but what what we're really seeing here
is the display thinned up the bezels and
got closer to the corners it looks
pretty good it's three and a half
millimeters all the way around
and then there's a notch at the top i'll
get to that in a second don't worry
don't worry i'll get to that in a second
but the display itself is 120 hertz pro
motion so it's up to that high refresh
rate and it's hdr it's essentially a
mini pro display xcr it's using the same
mini led tech and gets way brighter up
to 1600 nits peak brightness and hdr
content and editing
which is really exciting to have to not
i think john tld again he just tweeted
like it would be a shame to use these
laptops in clamshell mode you know you
can like close them and plug them into a
monitor because that monitor now is
probably better than whatever you're
going to plug it you have an xtr yeah
yeah
so that new screen is going to be
awesome for editing but
let's talk about the notch it's it's
kind of weird that this this so the the
aesthetic now is there's a notch at the
top in the middle that houses the new
webcam it's a 1080p webcam
finally
great another another big step for apple
doubled the resolution thank you
um but it's so wide that it seems like
it has more it has enough room for a
whole face id suite but they didn't put
it in
and
to me first of all it's like okay you're
going to do that in the next one you're
going to put face id in the notch
because now they all have to look the
same and you just waited a year and we
all know it's happening
but let's say you don't care about that
you still got touch id on the thing on
the keyboard the other thing is the
extra screen
is up at the top to the left and right
of the notch that's all menu bar now yep
and that's actually fine i the way it
was described is it's basically you're
getting extra screen up there that you
didn't have before totally agree yeah
yeah because a lot of the way it's
really easy to think about it is wow the
notch is cutting into my screen
the notch is just the last bit of the
screen that you didn't get rid of does
that make sense like you're getting more
screen and the notch is just left behind
well so it makes so much more sense here
because like
in a phone that was also the case you
know you were getting extra screen and
you were just kind of getting your
notifications up there the problem was
is on a phone it's really easy for your
notification bar to fill up and then
you're you don't have that space yeah
you are never going to fill the menu bar
and notifications or whatever up on a
laptop uh we'll see okay maybe
never but like it is far far harder and
most people will not sure so yeah you do
get the extra thing i i'm pretty sure i
know what you're going to complain about
that the
menu bar is like four pixels longer than
the notch so rather than it just being
perfectly flush with the menu bar
you like see the menu bar under the
notch and it's just this like little
tiny thing yeah that is super frustrated
from a company that just takes design so
seriously that seeing that makes me
believe there's a reason for it i just
am not exactly sure what it is yet i
think it may just be because the area
underneath the display or the area
underneath the notch is a little bit
taller than 16 by 10
or whatever aspect ratio they're going
for and so now when you full screen a
video or full screen any app it's going
to full screen underneath the notch the
apps will never cut into it that's
another thing that kind of peeves me a
little bit what um it's like when you're
in a full screen video
and you have the bars above the video it
centers the bars as if the bottom of the
notch was the top of the screen so
when you now black out the the part with
the notch and you add the extra black
bars there's more blank space on top of
the bottom i mean these are super
nitpicky things but again like in a
design perspective it would feel much
better if it was evened out yeah if they
can move it up a little bit but
you know it's it's never the notch will
never cut into anything no which is good
uh but yeah they're they're totally
gonna add face id to the next one that
they make it's just this one doesn't
have it and i would have actually been
totally fine with face id and the laptop
like windows hello you just open a
laptop it looks at you with the webcam
for like a second and it just unlocks
this would have been a
more secure version of that with like
their face id tech but it's not here so
i have a feeling this is a notch that's
going to
slowly melt away to our eye
and i wouldn't be shocked care i don't
mind it at all yeah i think it's totally
fine again you're getting extra screen
it's just those little tiny things that
kind of
make it look not perfect or yeah in an
otherwise incredible machine this is
probably the easiest thing to like trash
on this yeah i mean it's the notch it's
easy to try yeah but other than that
they're expensive the 14 inch starts at
19.99 the 16 inch starts at 24.99 and
you can max both of them out with the
same specs the same m1 max and 64 gigs
of me or yeah 64 gigs of memory and all
the high-end stuff eight terabytes of
storage
and uh the highest end 16-inch i think
will be 100
so yeah you can spec it up pretty high i
think the highest you can get with like
all the programs like pre and if you
like
6 600 sure but yeah 61 for max hardware
and everything yeah um my only other
gripe here is
the name max in a mac is
very confusing uh your a-roll for any of
these is gonna be brutal because you're
just gonna get tongue-tied for
everything there's a couple m1 max max
on the way i don't even know what you
just there it
definitely stay tuned for the reviews of
these i'm very excited i hope i get to
to edit on a laptop again that's my
ultimate goal i really feel like the the
final test in that is just like
do we ditch the travel imac yeah yeah
the travel imac that's it's an imac pro
right now that's sitting in a massive
pelican case that weighs about seven i
think we could fit on that pelican oh
easily i could fit in that case it's
huge but we have to we we literally like
pull up to the airport with like all our
bags and then this massive rumbling box
behind us and we go can we check this
bag please and they're like is it
oversized and like look at it
yes it's oversized
uh and that thing shows up on the other
side in the oversized baggage and then
we set it up in the hotel and it's a
desktop so if we can not do that ever
again this laptop's a huge win i don't
care what anyone says all right well
that's enough for uh for monday's event
yeah let's get into tuesday
so tuesday we had the google event the
pixel 6 reveal now this was a mysterious
phone because nobody knew what the pixel
was going to look like no one had any
clue if there would be one or two pixels
if they would have like a weird camera
design no one had any clue yeah would we
see the pixel ultra yeah will we finally
get the ultra this is heavy sarcasm in
case you can't tell uh we knew what they
were going to look like but we were
finally just getting sort of
confirmation and prices basically it was
an hour-long
price reveal even though they released
the price in the first like five minutes
yeah price reveal and some cool feature
demos yeah so neat um and we do have
them here in the studio officially i can
show you there it is and i can even
unlock it and show you the home screen
there's my home screen i can't as of
this moment show you anything else
but we can talk about all this stuff
yeah that we went over in that hands-on
video so the prices are the most notable
5.99 for the pixel 6 8.99 for pixel 6
pro
how did you were you surprised when you
heard those prices i feel like we were
guessing them and we were guessing a lot
higher uh yeah surprised but for kind of
different reasons so
with tensor it's really hard to kind of
guess where the price range would be i
think the most surprising thing is the
delta between the prices of how high
they are i could have seen both phones
going for 5.99 7.99 like a 200
difference or 699 8.99 but to see one at
599 899 puts this like just huge gap
between the two where then you start to
wonder like
where is your money best spent kind of
thing 5.99 is an awesome awesome price
tag
so we're seeing like because pixel 5
with you know a kind of smaller chip
than like the uh the flagships at that
time so i was kind of expecting like
maybe it would be really awesome you
know pixels never really killed their
hardware compared to other flagships and
stuff like that you know if they can
undercut some it would be really really
awesome almost like the new one pluses
like you know what i mean but um so
seeing 5.99 is great yeah 8.99 still a
little under but it's pretty pretty up
there still yeah that is pricier
so yeah i don't know there's there's a
lot of interesting stuff i i guess let's
start with the differences between the
yeah i think that's fine if you haven't
seen the designs by now like you it's
got the camera bar on the back it's got
these big screens 6.4 and 6.7 inches
they're big phones they've got these
these unique colors and obviously
android 12 material u
but the difference is okay for the 300
bucks you're gonna get
one
uh a slight you get a slightly bigger
screen 6.7 inches and you'll get that
screen to be 120 hertz instead of 90.
and you'll get that screen to be
slightly curved around the edges instead
of flat yeah and so it has like slightly
smaller bezels yeah that is neat and i
think
i think a common sentiment is like
people were like why isn't there a small
one i wanted there to be a small phone
but the uh the response from google
would likely be
we're making a 599 phone and we're gonna
give you as much phone as possible for
that price and people
usually want a big screen so we're
giving you a big screen for low dollars
which is
fair yeah i think it's i mean we've seen
with iphone mini like the sales weren't
as as good as we were all hoping for um
and then i think what people really
wanted it though because pixel 5 was
like a great size it was much smaller
not like mini size but still just a
smaller phone so i think people were
expecting
maybe something similar to that at least
in this release but it didn't happen so
yeah we just got some
chunky boys some big phones the big
phone also has a bigger battery it's
five thousand milliamp hours versus i
think it's 4 600. those are still both
great battery sizes both pretty big
batteries so that'll be fun to test they
both have the same tensor chip they both
have the same specs other than 12 gigs
of ram and the pro versus eight in the
in the regular six which is a bit more
ram but they both have a lot of ram
then you get these glossier sides on
this pro phone versus uh actually matte
black sides on the six i actually prefer
the matte aluminum on the six it's
something pixel's been doing for a bit
like the i saw the pixel 4
i loved the like orange or the white
color with the yeah the matte black
sides but no accent
but uh the powder makes me so mad that
would have been tough how do you do
these do these two tone colors on
everything and like pixels always like
love the different colors yeah just put
the accent button on
i want to see the green one so bad and
with a green accent button would look so
well as good as these phones can look
i'm still a little indifferent to it
over the whole design
can we normalize uh not doing glossy
sides like every time we hear them
describe it it's like we were inspired
by high quality finishes used in jewelry
and watches it's inspired by jewelry and
it's it's very glossy and premium
looking and it's like yeah jewelry is
shiny but like the matte one doesn't
gather fingerprints actually this pro
has a matte cutout at the top likely for
the millimeter wave support did you see
the other colors of that we're off on
such a tangent yeah right now but
there's a white one the white one at
least the white kind of matches it but
doesn't match the silver rails and then
the yellow one it has this like
almost i don't even know how to describe
it like
almost gold kind of like matte yellow on
the top because it we're assuming it's
the window for millimeter wave yeah so
it's like this matte finish on the top
the problem is it doesn't span the whole
thing so you can see
the size of it yeah and it looks really
bad on the yellow i think i also call
the yellow banana cream pie like that
you've left on your counter for two yeah
that's fair what was android b i guess
that was before it was like a beta oh it
should have been banana cream pie if it
was named uh wow what a tangent okay
where was that so you you also get one
more camera in the pro yes so we have a
standard 50 megapixel primary camera in
both we have the same ultra wide camera
in both
we do have
an added 4x telephoto in the pro
um which again will go to further
lengths to zoom in if you want optical
zoom super res zoom is available on both
but you can go further with this extra
dedicated telephoto and another subtle
thing the selfie camera on the pro
is a little bit more ultra wide it's
ultra wide and the the rank the regular
six is wide but not quite as wide and it
doesn't shoot 4k selfie video it does
1080. so it's a slightly upgraded selfie
camera on the pro
that's about it millimeter wave if you
don't get it on like one of the carrier
versions of the pixel six at a
millimeter wave that's another
difference but that's probably yeah just
be careful if you're it is not 5.99 if
you're getting millimeter wave off like
verizon or att if you're in the us i
think it's like 699 or even 729 from a t
just yeah
so is that a is that a 300
is that not enough for a 300 difference
so when i break that down
my thoughts are the two things i would
miss the most are the telephoto
and
i just i'm mad that the selfie camera on
the regular's not as wide i love wide
selfie cameras same thing i know how
that's not a thing on every single phone
was it pixel three that pixel three and
then he took it away for four yeah is
that big pixel 3xl notch had those two
selfie cameras biggest mistake google's
ever made yes yeah so i i don't i kind
of struggle to think what else they
could have done to make this worth more
money
i just
yeah i don't know it's like i don't see
myself wanting to spend an extra 300
because i like the matte sides better i
like the flat screen better although i
will say
the bezels do make it look chunkier and
more like brickish um when you're just
looking at it but i still like the flat
screen was that word
brickish oh brickish oh oh yeah i don't
know if it's an actual word that's fair
um yeah it looks more like you know when
you when you see both of them from the
top the pro looks so much better because
of the curved screen it makes the
pencils look yeah but totally fine with
the bezel i mean i've dealt with this
massive forehead on the 4xl forever i
think i can deal with some just oh yeah
they'll both be an upgrade for sure um
but like i have the ultra wide which is
what i'm dying for i'll miss the
telephoto but um i it's basically saying
i don't want to spend 300 for a
telephoto and i like the size of the
smaller quote-unquote smaller one better
yeah 6.4 inches is still plenty of
screen yeah i think that's a good i
think that's going to be a really good
deal and a really good phone for a lot
of people yeah now again this isn't the
review that's coming up we're testing
them for sure i am annoyed by the double
embargo
um it is a red flag it always is every
time i myself am not going to order one
until we get through our all of our
testing yeah david's testing one uh dave
is testing the the pixel six right now
i'm testing the six pro we might trade
at some point soon but look forward to
those reviews definitely this is a
random question yeah when you're talking
about a phone
let's say pixel 6 versus pixel 6 pro or
iphone 13 versus iphone 13 pro
do you automatically assume when they
just say the number that they're talking
about the smaller version so if i say
like how's the pixel six do you assume
i'm only talking about the regular pixel
six because there's so many times i add
the word regular or smaller or something
like that to it i feel like we need to
create a word for saying
yeah it's kind of like talking about
cameras where you talk about the primary
camera or do you say primary or wide or
regular camera um i think i assume yeah
i'm talking about the bass okay
i feel like we do but when you're
talking to like
everyday people who have phones like i
think
it's very default to just say like i
have the iphone 13 and that could mean
anything from mini regular pro pro yeah
i think people
don't really call phones by their name
they kind of use the suffix as like uh
an add-on it's weird it's like people
i'll talk to people be like oh you got
the iphone 13. yeah i got the mini one
so to them they got an iphone 13 but
it's the mini one instead of the iphone
13 mini or if they got the pro they'll
go oh yeah i got the iphone 13. i got
the pro one
so they're all kind of the same phone
just like one of them costs more and
it's the product that makes sense it's
like a trim model on a car like you
don't go around and say like i got a
subaru impreza like excited or something
you just say you have it and then you
like to have the sport yeah i got it i
had a toyota camry xle back in the
morning that was very confusing too i'm
looking at them now and it's yeah very
confusing but yeah um a little all
better than galaxy s
whatever
you know
the majority of like relatives and stuff
that i ask what phones they have they're
like i have samsung
because they just have
completely given up on trying to
remember yeah they just want the model
number and then the subtext so to them
it's the samsung galaxy but there's a
thousand subtexts of the samsung galaxy
oh did you get the s21 fan edition or oh
you got the s21 or the s21 plus or is
that the s21 ultra what which galaxy are
you talking about like there's a million
of them i feel like we're the opposite
is where it's like what phone do you
have it's like oh the s21 you you skip
samsung i know exactly what you just
typed the end of it yeah yeah that's
that's kind of the way we are in this
world but but yeah so i'm i think i'm
very close adam i know order what'd you
ordered probably ordered it right
regular ciama
regular the regular six but it feels
that i don't want to order a new phone
and be like yeah i got the regular it
just doesn't feel as good yeah the
pixel's thick yeah wait what color did
you get black black black i think that's
the green
no i didn't like the the only special
colors i liked were on the pro and when
i decided to get the six are you gonna
say
oh no
yeah i think black on black with the
aluminum sides all matte black that's
that's a nice murdered out pixel six i
like that it looks good i
i kind of dig the green even though i
dig like the more olive green of some
other phones that have been doing it
recently the thing is i i'm a full case
person at this point i kind of hate to
admit does that mean is that what like
being old in the tech world is
using a case no this we are in a very
isolated weird world where no one uses
cases but outside of the studio
everyone uses cases
that i know but like in this world of
people listening to the podcast right
now like am i getting shunned can you
tell i'm over 30 because i use a case no
i even pulled on twitter do you use a
case on your phone and it was way higher
than i expected even among our audience
it's higher than i expected which is
funny because it was lower than i
expected oh it was like seventy seventy
five twenty five twenty five i expected
it to be
even in our tech based audience like 90
10. because in the real world i think
it's like 95 yeah
actually my my friend i don't know if
you know chris but we went rock climbing
outside and he's no case and his phone
is just like sitting on the rocks rock
climbing with no case well he i mean he
doesn't keep it in his pocket when he's
climbing but when he's putting it down
it's not in a bag it's just on and he'll
be on a boulder yeah and i'll like move
it out of the way i'll pick it up to sit
there and then i'll be like i won't put
this down and i just hold it on my lap
then because i'm too scared of breaking
dude i'll put my phone face down on my
own desk next to my bed and be like
afraid to like drag it because i might
get a thing of sand or something yeah
yeah
yeah no my case i've just i'm full blown
in the world of like
i will just toss my phone on the ground
when i'm out climbing or when i'm like
at home doing work and stuff like that
because it has a case on it
for these phones now i think the like
obvious thing to do is like cancel the
camera bump so the camera the camera
visor or they're calling it a camera bar
whatever you want to call it i like that
camera bar camera mountain range yeah i
mean it's everything it's huge it's the
whole width of the phone but like that's
nice because now it doesn't rock from
side to side when you're when you're
typing with it face down or face up
which is nice
but uh yeah now you get a case and the
case basically like no brainer just just
go the depth of the camera bar across
the whole back so now you have like a
flat back
i think that's fine can i say for this
is a little off topic i should have said
in the beginning but for anyone who has
seen the renders of these and like
videos of these um and you're buying one
the camera bar is not as off the phone
as you think when i first saw it it
looked like it was
it looked like you could like pinch it
up from that like with your finger
protruding yeah but
the phone itself is still thick it is a
thick phone it is a brick and then you
add that on top and it almost feels like
the full thickness that i originally
thought except that less of it's the
bump more of it is the phone where
previously i just thought it was a
thinner phone with a gigantic bump bar
whatever you want to call it i think
this is so exciting because the pixel
cameras have always been so good and
this design language screams
we
care about this camera a lot like we
went deep we put in extra space there's
a lot of hardware here
big camera thing and they focused on on
the camera for a while in that event
yeah a lot of cool stuff in there a lot
of cool features like software features
they did uh uh faking long and short
exposures like we didn't talk about
magic eraser magic eraser is pretty cool
okay wait so i'll do the exposure stuff
real quick so if you take a picture of a
moving subject with the right shutter
speed with a nice camera you get a
blurred background but a sharp focused
object which is kind of cool it's like
you have to get good at it but like like
you take a picture of a car passing by
or something you can you can nail that
in sports you can fake that on the pixel
by holding it still and as the object
passes in front of you snap a picture in
a special mode and it will use ai and
software to go oh the object's moving
this way let's blur the background this
way and you look like you got that cool
sliding shot yeah and i think another
example is like it will do more than
just the background because they showed
someone on like a bike the wheels
yeah or like somebody next to a
waterfall where the water had the like
long exposure flowing but the people
like standing there yeah you can fake a
long exposure too if you look at like a
waterfall or light streaks by cars
driving by at night or something if that
does well i'm pretty excited about that
because i'm really excited to get ultra
wide because i like taking pictures and
i really like taking pictures when i'm
hiking and everything so getting to add
this cool like little water feature like
could you take some really sweet
pictures but what about magic eraser
though okay this is fun i mean my first
thought was
i still don't remember what they called
it but the chain link fence from like
2016 at google i o which was like
google photos is now going to erase
these things in the middle of your
picture and it just showed this like
really cool gif where i remember io the
oohs and oz that came out of it were
like
one of the biggest parts of the event
and it was like a kid playing baseball
with a chain like fence in between it
and it just erased it so this
immediately reminded me of that thing
that they just never talked about again
it's often the uh
the land of misfit toys with the bixby
speaker and the
air what is the air the charger air
power air power yeah um so
essentially what it seems like is if
there's
one of the examples they did was amazing
stuff in your background it seems like
um it will
content autofill essentially content
aware fill yeah yeah yeah so if there's
something
over your shoulder or in the background
of a photo
and it has a somewhat clean enough
background or repeatable enough
background that it can identify that
thing you open the google photos app you
go into this magic eraser tool and it
automatically finds and highlights that
thing and if you don't want it there
anymore you tap it and it disappears and
it fills in the background for you yes
seems really cool uh
i know from my experience with content
aware phil and other tools
that it's highly dependent on the
ability to reproduce the background well
and of course we have tensor now we have
google smarts we have ai we have all
these you know cool tools we've talked
about luminor ai before just like hey
replace the sky and just knows what the
sky is so we've seen some really cool
smart photo tools i'm very curious how
well this one will work in the the real
world exactly of like i have a photo
bomber over my shoulder in new york city
will it erase it but like put a taxi
where he was or what's going to happen
yeah that's what's good is like luminar
ai is replacing it with something this
is supposed to be
content aware filling it so it's
supposed to be what's in the background
so if you have a very busy background i
cannot see it having a good time doing
that um i think it'll be really awesome
for people if there's like something
very
my new in the background yeah i i know
exactly how i can make this work well
like just because of how i've seen it
work especially in photoshop and the new
after effects tool like if you give it
grass and you just put like a ball in
the grass behind you or a person yeah
with like just sky behind him like that
contrast it'll be able to fill that in
no problem the the problem will come if
you're on like a sidewalk and that
person behind you's feet are on the
sidewalk but their legs are over the
pavement their torso is over a car and
their heads in the sky like and half the
fire hydrant next to them and like all
this other weird stuff that's going to
be a mess in the background but i think
it'll be really great for just like
instagram where it's a smaller photo and
maybe there's just like one person in
the background you might not notice it
that much after you touch it up but sure
um what i did notice is they were all
background pictures it was fixing so
depending on how well that does
i think the chain link fences are still
going to be blocking all of our shots
right i will celebrate the day when
google finally i
i talked to google about this and they
suggested that this was instead of the
chain-link fence feature so they they
said you know how we would get rid of
the you know that you know the
chain-link thing for example did they
actually say they brought the chain-link
fence up and they said well we found
that people actually like to take things
out of the background
so to me
chain link fence is never happening
i also don't know anyone who takes that
picture with the chain link fence in the
front so you just go a little bit
forward you can't though
be google and say you don't need an
ultrawide you need a telephoto because
you take pictures of your kids playing
sports and then say i'm not going to
take a picture behind the batting cage
at my kids baseball game yeah i guess i
was picturing you like three feet behind
the fence taking it through it no you're
10 feet behind yeah you're in the
telephoto yeah okay yeah that's fair
well maybe they'll keep working on it i
don't want i'm not crossing my fingers
anymore but i think we'll officially put
it in the graveyard with sure with
air power yeah with products that were
announced and then silently sort of
disposed of
um that's yeah that's the pixel man the
reviews are coming up i think uh
the prices are the most interesting part
of the pixel because they're so
competitive but stay tuned for those
reviews and we will have them probably
next week all right well that's enough
of tuesday
that's enough of tuesday uh wednesday we
had
the samsung event the biggest event i've
probably ever seen yeah oh yeah it was a
it was fireworks the whole time straight
straight heat from top to bottom no
that's sarcasm too uh this was a small
one so it was on samsung unpacked two
for this year it was it was very small
like they didn't even have briefings or
anything for it not really any new
products it's just new updates to some
stuff the one i found interesting was z
flip 3 has some new colors
or it's not really well not new colors
it's new customization of yeah mixing
and matching colors so you can have like
now you can have a yellow top half and a
blue bottom half or a red top half and a
yellow bottom half whatever um which is
cool it's like some level of
customization i
it every time i see this stuff i think
back to like moto maker and how dope
moto maker was hiatus specifically
mentioned that because they said we've
never um offered this kind of
customization before and i was like did
they say we or we've never seen because
motorola would like to have a word with
you no it's just them
yes
classic classic line of like this is the
most we've ever offered yeah no yeah
moto maker was thick it was like you
could pick wood you could pick the
button colors you could pick like all
this other stuff this was um
yeah it just makes it match colors
basically yeah but that's cool i like
that it's a 100 extra bucks to do that
though i don't think that's that
unreasonable if you really if you really
want to mix and match colors then yeah
i'm sure i will also say and i kind of
missed it but i think hiatus saw it also
he said the box the z on the box
reflects the color choices that you make
which is kind of cool that nice touch
yeah nice nice touch if you're spending
100 extra bucks they they go the extra
mile for it i guess that is cool
there's some uh smaller little things
there's some watch updates yeah they
were and they also had a um
special edition i forget the designer
yeah they collabed with another designer
i
won't try to pronounce it because i'll
mess it up but i think there's a watch
band and earbuds exactly and then the
the watch four series got some new watch
four new watch faces uh they also now
have a gesture control where you can
knock knock for a quick launch of a
feature which is pretty sweet and
there's fall detection now so
neat sos notifications if you fall from
the watch series 4. um that's about it
really for unpacked two not a whole ton
but we did also have two other things
this week because it's a lot uh we have
surface duo 2
which is um how do i describe it well
we've brought it in here i haven't like
like you said we've been super busy you
did a lot of this video and you've been
checking it out um we've had it for like
two days i think by the time we're
recording this um
i haven't really gotten to see it yet so
this is my first time yeah seeing it so
as you open it up yeah we we saw the
surface duo one i'm really interested
how people are gonna receive this and
like try to understand this but service
duo one was like
really sweet hardware
but then a really
rough experience otherwise like buggy
software
poor cameras bad battery life like there
was not a whole lot else going for it it
was a cool idea because wow a dual
screen passport slim thing in your
pocket seems really cool
so this is the second one right yeah
they've made a bunch of improvements is
what i say in the video they've made a
bunch of objectively great improvements
to it things we asked for things we
asked for even
and
have realized in the process that it's
now actually worse to use
which is really strange it's i i don't
really see too many examples of this
which makes me like step back and like
contemplate the entire form factor as a
whole so that's what i tried to go into
in this video
but you're holding it now do you have
any uh
super quick okay one minute thoughts on
it um the curved screen i do have to say
like does make it feel like a little
a little less of a bezel in the middle
but like you know we i think we all kind
of assumed in this form factor the bezel
on the the cree i don't want to call it
a crease but you know the it's two
screens yeah it's two screens so like
you kind of expected that they did make
they made the bezels on the outside
smaller but they're still huge um so i
give them credit for that the black
color at first look nice seeing both of
them i like white better now here's my
biggest issue
i know everyone's gonna say this we
wanted better cameras it doesn't fold
flat
which i don't even have the biggest
issue with but and now i'm gonna do this
on video and try and explain it on audio
you hold the bottom
because the camera bump on the top it's
in like a wedge shape
it it snaps into the camera fine which
is like like feels really nice and
that's one thing that the surface has
done really well but if you're holding
the bottom of the phone when it's like
this
any pressure you're squeezing it and the
whole phone is flexing
and like that just
doesn't feel good and doesn't
it feels like something's going to break
still very thin i feel like even just
squeezing it and looking at it it feels
like it's now bowed in a little bit um
yeah i never oh there's a flashlight on
apparently okay
cool don't know how i did that okay that
was my fault
uh yeah
cool yeah i got it it still feels like a
great piece of hardware like it's too
wide it's too
wide to make it thinner a lot of
thoughts on this right okay so the new
screen is uh same aspect ratio but it's
a little bigger it's 8.3 inches inside
and it's a 90 hertz brighter display i
like that it's 90 hertz honestly the
software is still so buggy that it is
one of the stutteriest devices i've used
and i didn't even get to the price which
i will eventually but for this price it
should not stutter this much so that's
unfortunate but uh the camera on the
back it's way better and that's i guess
a pretty low bar to clear because the
previous camera on the surface duo was
the front-facing camera yeah
and not a front-facing camera they seem
to care about that much yeah so if you
hand it to me so before you would have
to uh you still have a selfie camera but
you have to flip it all the way around
to open it flip it around and then use
the selfie camera and take photos of
things from the screen on the other side
fine it worked i don't think that was
the worst idea in the world back then it
just felt like the selfie camera sucked
so bad it was bad right so this time you
have these triple cameras on the back a
standard an ultra wide and a 2x
telephoto which is not amazing but you
know what it's real cameras now yeah in
order to take your photos you have to
open it and if you fold it all the way
around again you're blocking the camera
so now you have to open it all the way
out to take photos like this
which is
it's minor but it's a little annoying
and
it's just a
thing and you take photos and it's got
this ui where you take photos on the top
and then it shows up at the bottom and
it's
it's well laid out but it's just a just
a strange design if you're listening
right now and don't have video what he's
saying is
before you would fold it all the way so
both screens were facing out and as flat
and you know what essentially is the
smallest version of the phone to take a
picture because that's how we all take
pictures with our phones now because of
folding in on itself you block the new
cameras
the phone has to be all of the way open
which
you look like the person taking a
picture with an ipad now yes and you
never want to look like that person i
promise you
um so can i also say
is that camera bump bigger than the
pixel camera bulb thicker at least you
know like uh further off of the phone i
think so it is a little thicker because
it is a wedge shape the funny thing
about the wedge shape is it's it is the
wedge shape oh yeah because it is
matching when you pivot around and click
it into place pivoting it around and
clicking into place feels nice until you
realize that there's nothing wedging now
the bottom like i said and if you pinch
that the whole phone flexes yeah and now
just when you use it one-handed like
this
um it's open a little bit and that's a
little bit weird to hold now it's like
it's just it's way flat it's already
weird to hold because it's way too thick
so it's so anyway i get you know into
this in the video and i'm like okay they
added the cameras the cameras are are
objectively better but now worse to use
is that a win a little bit but also a
little bit of a loss and there's also
like these weird quirks about the
software where like i still have a lot
of
touch responsiveness issues which is
strange in this software it's android
but it's you know it's dual screens and
i'm trying to span apps across the
screens
um and the one weirdest part
is if you span an app across both
screens
you literally lose the text that's in
the middle of the screen like a full
like probably 20 pixels are like bent
over into the middle watch the video so
you can see it on camera it is
it's not a good idea to read this like a
normal book
where text goes across i guess a normal
normal book they'll do two pages without
pages on either side but if you're
trying to web browse you you no longer
want to bring up an article full screen
because you're cutting off all the text
in the middle yeah i guess you would
want you would want to spin it and do it
vertically and then you can always
scroll the line past it exactly one
thing i thought of was they don't market
this as a gaming phone but at any point
when you have something that is a bigger
screen like you wanna actually do a
little bit they kind of do not like rog
phone levels or legion um but i have
game pass on here well so the thing is
is
i kind of get the idea of like folding
it up and you have a controller on the
bottom and the screen on top but you're
not really getting more screen real
estate in the games of there right so if
you wanted to play a game at full screen
you can
but if you wanted to play any type of
shooter like pub g or cod mobile or
something like that you can't full
screen because your crosshair will be in
the middle and the literal entire
purpose of playing the game is to shoot
people and now you can aim so that's
yeah interesting yeah so the difference
between something like this and a galaxy
fold would be you still have all the
screen in the middle but dual screens
dual screens was like it was an
interesting productivity idea because i
really like some of the versions of
using this device where i have my email
on one side and a web browser on the
other side and i'm writing things in the
email based on what i'm reading on the
other side in the web browser and you
can still do that on the folding screen
devices but it's just such a
cognitive thing to have two screens and
to have that separation there by a real
bezel
so that's why i was into the idea but i
think genuinely
it's
there's almost no reason to get it's
hard because they they did what we asked
them to they even did like i think the
uh little curved screen to get
notifications while it's closed is a
brilliant idea i think that was a really
smart move but it
like you said it's just
i don't know and with the full cameras
they make this seem like last year they
kind of had this thing where is this
your like dedicated phone or is this
kind of like a companion device kind of
thing like a word
quote-unquote phone or whatever but this
makes it feel like it's a real thing
that it wants to replace your phone
and i can't see many people doing that
unfortunately
yeah it's tough still feels great still
a great piece of hardware i'll invite
you guys in the comments to again leave
your thoughts because i asked for this
in the main video but we'll also see
some stuff here over on waveform like do
you think this form factor
can work can it have any real advantage
over the other stuff where you have an
outside screen because that's the thing
about all the other folding phones is
you can take them out your pocket use it
for a second check your notifications
without opening it put it back
they have varying levels of that
functionality some of them you can take
a quick selfie some of them you can
dismiss notifications or even reply with
your voice some of them have a whole
screen on the like a whole like a whole
phone like the z-fold is basically a
whole phone on the outside this one
nothing you have to open it and that's
the difference let's i'm curious how
about this
i mean obviously fix all the software
bugs and stuff like that what if this
was a little bit less wide and did have
a front screen so now you can use it
normally front screen you can take
pictures with the nicer camera on the
back which we also i don't think we've
tested the cameras yet on it because we
haven't done the full review but we'll
have to see a whole this will definitely
be better than the old one we'll see how
it stacks up to other phones yeah you
can take regular pictures you can do
your regular normal stuff but i do still
feel like
it's not so much that it doesn't have
like the full bending screen but the two
screens like holding like a book is
still really comfortable and if you are
doing some basic browsing or especially
reading like i could see people who are
really into e-readers and stuff like
that yeah this could be awesome like
this is a comfortable way to hold the
phone it is bringing a new form factor
but the problem is it's making all the
normal everyday used phone stuff so much
harder yeah
1 500
no thanks yeah that's the that's the
cherry on top of the banana cream pie is
that a thing not probably not
but that's the cherry on top it cost 100
bucks more than the last one which by
the way was like selling for 900 off or
a thousand dollars off which is
pretty good sign that they're not
selling very many
um for whatever reasons obviously it
didn't do very well but
brand new 1500 bucks so
it is what it is yeah i i i leave the
comments section open to your thoughts
on that one because that's one of the
most like polarizing interesting things
uh but one last thing for this week
we have the rivian here yeah we had the
rivian r1t
here
in the flesh the electric pickup truck
from the california startup
now
the whole crew's seen it now you sat in
it we've driven it around for a bit
i've i've made a full 20 minute video
somehow i didn't realize i had that much
to say about this truck but i did and
that was the most fun i've ever had
driving a truck and if you put a gun in
my head right now and said cybertruck or
rivien
i would honestly pick the rivian it is
sick
so fun i still think way too many people
are excited for cyber truck and don't
know what they're getting themselves
into yeah as cool as cyber truck is and
for the people that it's made for it
will be great
that is not a car a truck for the
average person yeah like uh yeah it's
massive f-150 lightning even very
massive gmc makes that hummer obviously
the hummer is massive
so the number one thing the rivien has
going for it is it's a compact pickup
truck it's like a four and a half foot
bed it's it's a very maneuverable truck
relative to other trucks of course yeah
but i oh man it's fun it's so fun you're
not buying it if you are like a truck
truck person if that makes sense you
know like i do like that their marketing
is this is more of like an adventure
thing yeah the truck bed is a benefit
yeah it's not this is not a work truck
no no no yeah it's a it's a it's an
adventure vehicle is what they call it
basically
um so wow i don't know if we even have
enough time to go into all the details
about it just real quick yeah definitely
watch the video it's fun but like they
have every little thing
geared towards adventure from the colors
we tested the blue one but uh there's
some other kind of adventure colors i
think and and on that they do this like
yellow accent with their logo and the
stuff on the side so yeah
i like the blue and i love the blue with
the yellow accent the yellow calipers
the yellow brakes yeah everything looks
so good so the design is kind of like
this retro future thing and i included
this tweet in the video and i think it's
perfect someone said it looks like this
truck is
like 50 years old and brand new at the
same time because it has this weird like
like volkswagen bus type shape
but it also is a huge light bar and leds
and like a new truck look and it's
electric so it's very it's interesting i
it grew on me i didn't love it at first
but it grew on me also it's still not
i don't think it's a sexy trick i like
aggressive i like aggressive looking
things and not like crazy overly
aggressive like cybertron stuff like
that
i'm not not a cyber trucker um
so from the side profile
absolutely love it it looks so good the
light bar kind of like comes over to the
side so you can kind of see it in the
front and that gives it that kind of
like harder edge meaner look to it while
still being like you know not insanely
boxy and but the front looks like it's
like wearing glasses like a grandma so
that yeah that's the only thing and i
like it i'm not saying i don't like it i
still
i still like the design of it it just
has this kind of like i don't know if
tacky is the right word but it looks
like it's trying to be an outlet
and to me it's like we're from the
future we're electrical
plug me in
and i don't
know like that thinking of it all like
that i don't love it
but besides that little gripe i
love this the bar the bar on the front
yeah i love this the bar on the front is
leds and when you plug it into charge it
lights up green and pulses okay but
still not as cool as the hummer that the
lights like ticked up like a battery
that was the coolest but that is still i
could have sworn somewhere i saw i
thought i saw that the rivian was going
to do like a progress bar green and i
guess like across the front yeah maybe
that was a concept or something but that
would have been cool but it just pulsed
which is whatever it's pulsing and it's
sitting there green um i've never gotten
more looks and questions about anything
i've driven differently ever i've driven
the 720s
daily i've driven it around regular
streets i've driven
the nsx i've driven obviously other
teslas the cyber trucks gonna get the
same thing but i drove this to like go
get dinner i drove this around like my
home neighborhood my neighbor has a
truck immediately he was like what is
that like the people just pointing from
their cars and i can see them like oh
what is that it's got to be the lights
but it's also just the whole
electric truck
and just like the sportier i know there
are sportier colors on trucks but like
you don't see it as often you see so
many black silver white trucks and
having this like blue yellow accent
truck it stood out differently it
definitely stood out um the specs are
pretty simple 314 miles of range you're
gonna do you know public charging and
home charging for now they're building
out as of we as of right now they're
starting to build out the ribbing
adventure network which i would describe
as like kind of like the tesla
supercharger network but for rivien's oh
really yeah i haven't seen it was more
like ford passwords like we're using
other things and you're getting um like
information based on a different
infrastructure yeah so they're building
their own they're building their own
charging infrastructure is it um what is
that chat mo or
c
i think it's ccs ccs i think it's ccs
and correct me if i'm wrong but i yeah
it'll be just four rivians it'll plug
into all the info will be in the app and
everything it'll be like their own first
party well-integrated network and it's
the adventure network so it'll be in a
lot of places not like tesla's where
they're along the like road trip stuff
but they're more in like adventure
places maybe campsites maybe a lot of
those uh stops on the way to campsites
or popular camp locations so that's kind
of a neat like version i'll be
interested to see how that happens if it
is like something where you're using you
know electrifier america most of the
time and they're giving you some extra
you know
like out in the wilderness kind of stuff
but then you also have to think the
super adventure things are really out in
the wilderness where like yeah i mean
like far from a charge it's i highly
doubt they're going to get in any
national parks or anything uh i think
maybe one or two yeah i mean like i
could see like yosemite at like the main
like valley lodge area or something like
that but most of these campsites like
you're not getting sell signal out there
you're you're barely getting running
water and all the bathrooms in there
like to now pop up be a startup and pop
up these chargers seems a little uh
tough but i guess those rv campers and
stuff in a lot of those places that
they'll give you electric too but
we'll see how that does we'll see it's
brand new none of them exist yet we're
just getting that started but that's the
idea but i think the 314 miles of range
is the important spec that's pretty good
and they have something called like a
max package where it looks like in the
future 400 miles yeah they're they're
offering a ten thousand dollar upgrade
for 400 plus miles but that's not
shipping it i'll believe it when i see
it okay i don't know when that's going
to come out that would be it oh my that
sounds great 10 grand for an extra 100
miles sounds awesome i mean i'm already
looking at this as a very expensive
truck that it is yeah um so like in my
my fantasy world where i'm getting this
yeah of course i'm gonna spend an extra
10 grand it starts at like 70. fyi so
it's expensive it's an expensive it's a
pricey truck but i'll also toss in quad
motors torque vectoring 0 to 60 and 3
seconds flat jesus christ this truck is
fast it's wild it's hilarious that a
truck can be that fast and i don't want
to describe what i did on the highway in
too much detail but it shouldn't be able
to do what it does on the highway the
whole eevee truck thing like yeah we
we're now at the point where a lot of
people have experienced like electric
launch in like a car but the truck world
is just gonna be confused like that's
what's so weird about it i did a launch
launch control yeah
it's a pickup truck
there are people who mod trucks that
this does happen please comments we
understand this sure can happen in a
truck my grandfather's races pick up
trucks yeah it is just not a common
thing though and we all can agree with
that that it's just going to be really
weird when you pull to a light when
somebody's like
modded lancer or like sti or something
and they're like pull off and just torch
them in a like a pickup truck it'll be
hilarious and silently too it's not like
the old like my grandfather drag raced
pickup trucks and actually he drag raced
an old f-150 lightning i remember oh
yeah which is kind of awesome it was
like performance version but that's like
a loud obvious thing that's happening
where this would just be like
like you just take off and it did
so what was kind of interesting though
is because it was on the off-road tires
um which i do think they said get less
range obviously but yeah 10 to 15 less
road noise on that it's like it almost
feels like you're you do have some noise
obviously not
uh like combustion engine noise but
there was a lot of road noise when we
had the windows open and you were really
hitting it yeah you can you can hear it
yeah but
overall this truck like with the gear
tunnel with the um it has like lights in
the back it has like its own
cover i forget what they called it
yeah something like that it just had the
bluetooth speaker the flashlight in the
side
just like the extra space under the
seats the front trunk was good i still
like the f-150 front trunk better
because it lowers it down a little bit
and you can kind of like sit on it um
but like air compressor air compressor
yeah but for me as somebody who
flashlight yeah bluetooth speaker yeah
it's um
like for me as somebody who
kind of thought about the f-150
realize it's just too big as a commuting
this feels like kind of now that in
between of like
i'm kind of on the fence and the
commuting aspect of like a uh like
crossover but like kind of want the the
bed right like a truck bed would be
awesome
it that could commute and be fine i
still wouldn't drive in like the city
but for like my 50-minute commute yeah i
i
absolutely love caribbean it's totally
converted i found it um i know the city
question is obviously mostly a parking
question but i found it very
maneuverable because of the torque
vectoring it had a pretty tight turning
radius like i never had any problems
parking it i don't drive a truck very
much i was very impressed by that but um
parking would still be i mean that's
just
yeah that's the reality of the city
i think the gear tunnel is the coolest
smartest thing that they could have done
because it leans directly into the
adventure stuff which is the rivian
stuff
but it's also just like extra storage
and a cool eevee thing and just like for
you and i we've both played ultimate
my new hobby has the same thing where
it's just like we play a sport where we
have another pair of shoes cleats
climbing shoes they smell
miserable
and you know you don't want to play with
stories yeah yeah so
literally sealed storage where i don't
have to accidentally forget them in my
trunk and then gag as i get into the car
the next day sounds fantastic yeah so
this is uh and you can get a camp
kitchen attached to it you can attach
like weight to it do we know if those
are available
and now
i think i'm kind of thinking this
because tesla's been our main ev thing
and tesla really likes to sell you right
off the bat and not give you options
later
camp stove you can get like later five
thousand dollar option haven't seen it
delivered yet but you can add it in the
configurator awesome yeah so it's really
cool five thousand dollars is a lot of
money but
the package it comes with like you
should go read the package it has like
your it has the stove it has like the
little sink and the water container but
it also comes with adam what's the
company of all the
snow peak never heard of the company
before but a bunch of really really nice
i'm talking like fifty to a hundred
dollar mugs and and like camp cups oh
yeah like cutlery yeah really really
nice uh struck as fun i would love it i
could totally see myself in the next
couple years possibly picking it up
y'all watch the video it's 20 minutes
long we took it off-roading a little bit
barely it's an air quote we took it off
of a road
it's off of a road okay i don't we had
two we had a day and a half with it but
like most fun i've ever had in a truck
i'm a huge fan now i can't wait for that
charging network to build out so that's
the rivien that's been quite a week
quite a week who knows how long is that
episode it's probably going to go crash
like
no i'm going to go directly on a plane
to go play frisbee it's going to be good
but uh that's been it for a week
whatever this is of tectober we'll be
back next week as we usually are but
definitely stay tuned for those reviews
we talked about and for additional
videos because they never stop it's that
time of year either way thanks for
watching
catch you on the next one
peace
waveform was produced by adam molina we
are partnered with vox media and our
introduction music was created by vain