welcome back to another episode of the
waveform podcast we're your hosts i'm
marquez and i'm
andrew just kidding i'm andrew
i'm marquez yeah there we go in today's
episode we have tesla hitting a new
milestone while simultaneously taking a
step backwards we're gonna bring david
on later uh kind of have our final
thoughts on pixel six but first
you had a really busy weekend
uh yeah i was so every my entire
timeline right now is where are the
videos where is the macbook pro review
where is the pixel six review where is
the airpad airpods video um i've been
actually with the last video i published
that from the hotel yeah at uh nationals
we're uh we're representing new york for
club ultimate frisbees national
championships in san diego for the past
four days
um it was a good time we it was it's
been a crazy year and yeah not a lot of
normal things about this season but it
was uh it ended with us losing by one
point in the finals to raleigh so we
came in second place
um
extremely impressive like uh yes lost in
finals but i don't think people
understand how many like this nationals
is
the top 16 teams in the country 16 or 20
these 16 16. i mean there are hundreds
and hundreds of teams out there every
year you have to go through sectionals
and you have to go through regionals
then you get to nationals something i
never did in my ultimate career and now
you have been to finals twice
it's wildly impressive yeah we lost in
semifinals in 2019 and then we lost in
finals on universe point so by one point
to raleigh so congrats to raleigh some
of you who might have followed the audl
pro season might know we also lost to
raleigh in the finals in the pro league
as well which is incredible for raleigh
but yeah for new york great for great
for rally bad for new york good for
noah's all bad for isaac saul
there's any ultimate listeners out here
they're brothers that are good friends
of ours but we pl we played a good a
good tournament we were technically the
nines that is really impressive but
seas were funny because seeds almost
meant nothing the four seed ended up
coming in last place so it was uh it was
all over the map ultimate seedings
had never been great it was a crazy year
but i'm sure
i mean it kind of sucks that it's in the
middle of the busiest segment but it
also is probably nice to just have four
days to focus on that and kind of yes uh
take a break so that's where the video
that's why the videos weren't right on
time because i was out in a field
all right so we want to do a few tech
headlines first right yeah we can start
off with macbook pro i'm actually if
you're watching the video version i am
now sitting with the new macbook pro in
front of me i am testing both the 14
inch m1
pro and a 16 inch m1 max macbook pro
so you're you're testing the 14 and the
16 which one
i'm assuming you brought the 14 with you
to travel uh yeah yeah so i actually
started testing the 14 when i was out
there but that was just like for regular
everyday
stuff which this is massively overkill
for
i'm back in the studio now i can't wait
to start i'm going to be trying to edit
a video on this for the first time in a
while i haven't edited a video on a
laptop
on the 16. okay okay so the 16-inch that
we're testing is fully maxed out it's
got the the highest end chip with the
most gpu cores with all of the ram and
everything
and uh
that's what i'm gonna give a shot but i
took the 14 with me
it's been great i think it i it did
everything just as well as the m1
13-inch macbook pro did which is to say
web browsing answering emails the couple
of things i got the chance to do out
there but i'm gonna really put it
through its paces but my initial
impressions this thing is nice i mean
just looking at it i love the black
keyboard rather than this
garbage it is nice love the keyboard
love the touch id the real buttons are
back no
touch bar anymore out of here uh the
screen is much nicer and very bright
battery life about the same magsafe can
confirm pretty fast charging okay love
that i haven't had to use the ports yet
but i love that there's an sd card slot
so if i were to just like take some
photos and
you know toss my pixelmator in here i'd
have that with me
how nice is it to not have to dig for
your sd card reader like that inevitably
gets lost at the bottom of your bag
whenever you travel it's so nice yeah it
is really nice um the notch is just kind
of sitting there i feel like i'm over it
at this point it's just cool it's just
in the screen speaking of notch quinn
from snazzy labs had a pretty fantastic
video
yesterday i think yeah i think even just
last podcast i was saying you are never
going to fill the menu bar and
notifications or whatever up on a laptop
uh we'll see i've been proven wrong very
quickly um quinn did have that happen
i can't even believe this is real so oh
my gosh a lot of people have been asking
and wondering with the notch in the way
now what happens if your app menus go
too far to the right or your status
menus go too far to the left do they
like you know get smaller or do they
jump to the other side or are they
scrollable the answer is freaking
nothing if i turn on istat menus look at
that
there is stuff behind the menu bar that
i can't see
yeah so the top of the screen where the
notch is the notch cuts into the menu
bar yeah so that's where your like file
edit view all those menus are and on the
other side that's where your time
notifications wi-fi all those things are
if you use a program with enough menu
bar items you can actually fill up the
menu bar and then the question would be
okay what happens does it skip to the
other side of the notch
and quinn
had a couple i think he was using
resolve or something like that and he
had istat menus
there's always a bunch of stuff on the
left eye stat magnus is a bunch of stuff
on the right and they collided in the
middle and there was just stuff hidden
by the notch
which is really strange and uh didn't
realize that was gonna be a problem i i
don't have that many apps that have that
many menu bar items but if you do
that's something to consider resolve is
a pro app yeah and like what's funny is
it works totally normal it just pretends
the notch isn't there so the menu will
pop down under it so ultimately it's not
really restricting you unless you know
you're new to that program and some i'm
just waiting for someone to like look up
a tutorial be like go to this menu uh
category and now oh i don't have that
yeah oh it's behind the number it's
hidden behind the notch but you can
still click it you just won't yeah it's
still there i'm sure people will find
out but that's
super weird pretty funny feels like an
oversight but i guess ultimately what
else would they do my
only
like resolve to it would maybe be um if
there are too many you add like a drop
down arrow and then you know you drop a
menu down to now get into the extra
menu selections that would be there i
think it was between that and making it
scrollable horizontally which would be
kind of
maybe less intuitive than we think i
think we'd know to scroll but i think a
drop down is easier to see would be
easier i mean i guess you have the side
scroll on a track pad or more reason to
buy a uh magic mouse which is terrible
stopped by a magic mouse
uh but yeah that i did see quinn's video
that you know other than that i think
this laptop's been pretty great but
again my conclusion on it
hasn't been determined yet it will come
down to how well the pro workflow works
m1
cruised through all of my casual stuff
like pixelmator like of course web
browsing slack my to-do list all that
like basic stuff any laptop can do so
i'm looking forward to notching it up
pun intended and uh getting into the
maxed out inch and throwing 8k red raw
and transcoding at it and seeing seeing
what it can handle so it'll be
interesting too because like renee's put
some videos a lot of people put videos
out on this already um and
some of the times they're getting while
you know they're in prores a lot of the
the stuff they're editing and doing time
like export examples of and they're
destroying the times so prores i would
expect to do exactly an order of
magnitude better because there is a
specific section of the m1 max and m1
pro chip dedicated to prores processing
and transcoding and all that so if you
have a prores workflow i don't even have
to test it you should get these laptops
this laptop will do incredible work with
prores but that's the thing like okay
it's it's built for that and has a
section for that but what about other
things like of course shared memory and
faster bandwidth and all that stuff is
going to have a major performance
increase but it won't be the same as
dedicating a piece of it like if i had a
an afterburner card that would
be dedicated to transcoding uh redcode
raw that would be a totally different
story
so we'll see what the new performance
stuff does but yeah of course it'll
crush with prores happy about that
um all right next up we have i feel like
i have to talk about facebook a little
bit here they've
literally been in the news every day for
the last like two weeks it seems like
aren't they gonna change their name yeah
that's kind of what i want to get to um
before that the the main thing we're
seeing is these whistleblower papers um
i
don't really want to get much into it
because i don't feel like um uh well
enough first in what's going on but
there are a million resources out there
i highly suggest reading some of them um
what i did read was super interesting
but yeah we
and what feels like kind of a
coincidence because of all the stuff
coming out i'm sure for other reasons as
well facebook wants to
change their name but less of you know
changing facebook.com more of changing
the full-blown company name kind of
similar to what uh google google like
went under alphabet when they started
doing more ventures than just being a
search engine i see something like that
so facebook would be one of the
companies under a parent company and
that parent company would also have
instagram and oculus and stuff like that
yeah yeah what's happening what stuff
like that
um
it
like i said it it makes sense um first
of all because it's when you think of
facebook you think of the social media
the terrible social media
i think most of us
come and if you are you know oculus is
fantastic whatsapp is great
instagram's pretty great too they've had
a lot of stuff in the news lately as
well but um if i were any of those i
would never want to be associated with
facebook and try and
break off of that as much as possible
yeah i think i was thinking of like the
car analogy where when you buy like a
genesis for example in the u.s those are
like somewhat popular luxury cars but
they're made by hyundai and you would
never spend that much money on a hyundai
yeah but hyundai has a sub brand called
genesis that is completely separate from
it you never see the word hyundai in any
of their cars but that allows them to
have a different reputation
uh kind of the same thing with alphabet
like it's a parent company that holds
google and they run google and i'm sure
they do a bunch of other stuff but that
makes sense like instagram doesn't it
say a facebook app when you log in it
does i
yeah that's a good point will that
change to what they don't have one name
yet by the time this episode comes out
it might be out i think they have an
event tomorrow where they might announce
it okay um some people are speculating
horizon because they have this new
i don't want to call it a game but like
new vr metaverse experience called
horizon world so people are thinking
like that's horizon is going to they
zuckerberg has mentioned it really wants
to focus on the metaverse and they're
obviously doing a lot of ar vr stuff um
and
so horizon seems to be the front-running
rumor but there's not
much about it quite yet it would be
instagram a horizon app interesting
instagram instagram or horizon app i
mean
i would much prefer that over i'm sure a
lot of like younger people who really
enjoy
instagram would
love to not have it say facebook and
have it correlate with facebook anymore
for however much that's worth you still
know it's a facebook company though yeah
ultimately i guess but
so yeah that's pretty much it um i
think it's the right move and in the
future people will forget but i don't
think anyone will ever really forget
until like zucker
no one will ever forget it's just always
going to be correlated with what i
consider just like the swamp of the
internet i despise facebook how much
facebook's reputation has
sort of tanked over the years it's
especially in the last probably
five to seven years like it had it's it
was already the sort of older social
media yeah and that's why facebook ended
up like literally buying instagram is
could because people exactly went to
instagram and never even made a facebook
account after a certain age so you're
like all right how are we going to get
these new people and all of their data
we'll buy instagram and that'll keep us
on the forefront but like facebook
hasn't really done anything to shift
itself back into like do you think 10
year olds are like itching to make a
facebook account no no they're on tick
tock
if anything and then instagram and then
facebook maybe someday so that's the
reputation now and that's what changes
but it's the thing is like they've gone
further than just being the old person
app like kind of how we see yahoo or
hotmail email addresses like it just
seems but uh but you know those yahoo
email address didn't do anything wrong
it just became synonymous with like the
kind of boomer mentality uh whereas
facebook is now not just for old people
but essentially destroying democracy so
get rid of that aol.com
yes you cringe sometimes when you see an
aol.com email address
yeah there's still some out there though
i do do you like remember those days of
how long it took you to get onto the
internet it's just just barely before my
time but i've heard i've heard the sound
it was brutal i like
imagine trying to like load david into
this podcast how long do you think that
would take that would take a while
probably about like
as long as an ad break yeah probably all
right let's let's do it this episode of
waveform is brought to you by peloton if
home is where the heart is it can also
be where the cardio is so with peloton
you can get one of the best workouts
your life without ever having to step
outside your front door peloton has
revolutionized the at-home exercise
experience because when you bring
peloton home you're not just purchasing
a piece of machinery you're gaining
access to an entire world so peloton has
really increased my workout volume way
more than i expected it's very
motivating so just being able to have
not only a stationary bike but to have
classes on the thing that i can take
even with my friends right in my house
as a game changer i don't ever have to
worry about whether weather is nice for
riding to go for an actual bike ride i
don't have to drive to the gym after a
long day of editing it was great to be
able to help stay in shape for my
ultimate season getting ready for
nationals it wasn't easy during tectober
but we went to finals and proved we were
one of the best teams in the nation so
even though we're working out from home
peloton plugs you into a global network
of riders we can cheer each other on
challenge each other to be better and no
matter what you're doing building
strength building endurance or even
building a meditation practice so pelton
has you covered however you like to move
cardio yoga pilates running it's all
there on your schedule so with the
peloton bike there's nothing like
working out from home learn more at one
peloton.com new members can try peloton
classes for free for 30 days at
1pelton.com
app terms apply that's
o-n-e-p-e-l-o-t-o-n.com right welcome
back we've brought uh david onto the
podcast and we're going to talk pixel
6. slowly loaded
slowly loaded him in with our good
old-fashioned internet here actually my
legs are still loading but um okay so we
we've used these phones so i've mostly
been testing the pixel 6 pro david's
been uh rocking the what's the color of
that this is kind of coral the kind of
coral kind of rng yeah pixel 6. every
time i look at it it looks like a
different color right now you've got the
laptop the rose gold laptop yeah yeah it
kinda looks like it's the rose gold it
does look the same when i look at the
camera monitor but when you look at it
next to an orange thing suddenly it
looks orange and you wouldn't believe me
until you saw it in the video even the
renders online look different than it
looks in real life like yeah this color
is an enigma it's like the dress yeah
exactly yeah blue or gold blue or gold
we try our best in the video but the
review is up now it's a review of both
phones in one so there's that um but we
wanted to talk a little more about some
of the more nuanced stuff i've always
gotten like the comment that i spend i
spend too much time on the camera in
these phone videos it's just a phone why
are you talking about the camera so much
but this is the pixel yeah so we have a
lot to say about the cameras because
they're sort of known for the cameras
but big old deal let's uh let's talk
pixel for a bit so
do you have any other
like burning thoughts that didn't get
into the review i mean you've used this
90 hertz flat 1080p screen for a bit
how are you feeling about that 5.99 yeah
i mean i think the 599 is makes this
phone one of the best deals as an
overall package on android right now
yeah um i agree a lot of people would
probably say like oh there's you know
cheaper phones that are have a faster
geekbench score or something or have
like a 120 hertz display but like
considering all of the smarts that you
only get on pixel as an overall package
5.99 isn't a price that i don't think
any of us were expecting we guessed in
slack and i guessed 6.99 8.99 but right
5.99 is just like the cherry on top yeah
i remember before we got briefed on the
prices we were told all about these
phones and tensor and these new cameras
and the phones share a lot of parts yeah
and then we were told one of them will
be mid-range and one of them will be
flagship and with just that information
i think i was guessing 799 999
just
like that's what i think of when i think
of mid-range maybe i could be 699 or 750
like the baseline iphone but
that's what i was thinking yeah um so
when we got to 5.99 8.99 i was like okay
8.99 is pretty premium but 5.99 for the
pixel with that same chip it's the same
primary camera yeah the same software
like that's a really good deal of a
phone same storage 128
and even the design i'll be honest i
i would almost prefer yeah the standard
pixel so the they've curved the screen
over the edges on the six pro just a
little bit and it's all right it shrinks
those bezels a little bit
um but it's got these glossy sides
they're both aluminum sides but this is
much more fingerprint prone than the
matte sides on the six so i actually i
would rather have
that build this mat is not quite the
matte that you got on the pixel four if
you have a pixel 4 or pixel 4 xl that's
a nicer matte in my opinion yeah this
one's definitely like aluminum with like
a matte texture but it's not the same
thing yeah um my theory on the pricing
with pixel 6 and pixel 6 pro means 5.99
um you obviously get the 120 hertz
display over 90 you get the telephoto 4x
telephoto camera over the no telephoto
camera at all you get the wider angle
front facing camera with the higher
resolution it's 11 megapixels over eight
um but i think everyone was kind of just
like the penultimate question for all of
this has just been like is that 300
worth of stuff and i have this theory
that actually that extra 100 right
because maybe they could charge an extra
200 for the pro my theory is the
millimeter wave
because i really cuz
verizon and other telecom providers
often charge a lot more like the oneplus
8 i remember when that came out
the uw version on verizon which stands
for ultra wide band
was 100 more than the regular one right
and
i i don't
you know
they're probably just trying to make up
for the money that they put into the
infrastructure and that's this is how
they're trying to make it up
but for people that don't know the pixel
6 has 5g low band and mid band but it
doesn't have millimeter wave right
whereas the
pro has millimeter weight millimeter
weight by default there are some carrier
effects of the pixel six with millimeter
ways
we're still trying to figure it out the
verizon and the 18 t ones are
100 140 140
more for this that
like almost no longer becomes a deal but
like this is yeah yeah it's it's wild so
well that matches with your theory
though perfectly yeah 100 verizon is
costs or charging one hundred dollars
more how 18d is charging another 40 on
top of that the funny thing is verizon
is charging another hundred dollars on
top of the hundred dollars that i think
was already put into
you know making oh wait no no you're
right i'm saying right because they
added if they added it to this yeah yeah
so
yeah
that's i mean yeah that sounds but i
would say that like for most people like
the funny thing is like a lot of android
enthusiasts are going to want to get the
pro obviously yeah that's why they made
it yeah because i have this theory that
they need to
pixels need to be pro and not pro at the
same time all of the google assistant
features in every
pixel and the reason that i love the 4a
so much is that all the assistant
features are helpful in a way that you
don't need to interact with your phone
physically as much
you've got now playing you've got hold
for me like all these things that make
it so like it just automatically does
things google assistant google voice
um well not google is google assistant
but
the ant the android enthusiast community
are the people that buy pixels in the
first place so then google has bounced
back back and forth over and over again
on whether it wants the pixel be premium
or affordable or premiere affordable and
it still hasn't gained market share on
either of those so now it's just like
let's do both sure and i think that's a
really good move yeah so we've got
there's a couple really there's some
standout things about the phone that we
can dive into a little more watch the
video review if you haven't already it's
like 20 minutes long but let's talk
about a couple things first of all
should we just do camera right off the
bat
i know david has a lot of i guess
yeah okay um my general overall take
that we can pick apart is
they are over processing a bit and my
you know you look at a lot of the photos
and
it takes a 10 out of 10 photo sometimes
and it takes
weirdly a below average like 7 out of 10
photo other times
and i feel like i can see
i can see the camera like with its
potential it's a 50 megapixel huge
sensor taking in way more light i can
see that potential in a lot of the shots
but then the over processing and over
hdr look that i get from it
uh makes it look worse than it should
so in a lot of like totally normal
average looking scenarios it'll it'll
start peeling in like highlights and
shadows that don't need to be pulled in
where in like the tough situation like
out the windshield of my car at night
with the ultra wide wall moving it'll be
an incredible shot and i'm like wow this
is this is an incredible camera and
that's the 10 out of 10. yeah but then a
7 out of 10 is like the normal shot
where it over hdr stuff yeah so
i'm i'm thinking it can get better with
software updates like i've seen really
good shots in a lot of situations where
a lot of phones can't compare and so
that makes me really like this camera
but
it's gonna it's gonna need a little bit
of tweaking i think yeah
okay so uh
the point of computational photography
is to get around physical boundaries to
cheat physics to
and in in previous devices smartphones
have had the some of the smallest
sensors out of any camera right we kind
of moved from these large format cameras
down to this and then we kept getting
smaller and smaller and smaller and
smartphone cameras have traditionally
been the smallest uh one of the earliest
examples of computational photography
portrait mode right that's a great
example it's grabbing the edges of a
thing and creating a foreground and a
background and over time they tried to
create more than just a foreground and a
background they tried to create more
depth levels in order to try to emulate
the way that lenses actually work
um that was all
a stop gap
until we got to bigger sensors and
smartphones and i think that that is
like one of the first examples the other
examples are like hdr and that kind of
stuff and those are the things that i
think
are becoming a problem now that
smartphone sensors are getting so big
capturing so much light and
one of the things that a big sensor does
is give you
natural depth of field and it also gives
you more light capture yeah sometimes
too much depth of field right right yeah
like cringy and like a little bit like
two wide open right we saw this on the
s20 ultra and i think this is having a
similar first generation problem but not
quite as bad yeah yeah there's also two
software features that they added in uh
the camera modes that are also both
software tricks to simulate things you
do with hardware so you know that like
uh action pan shot that you get where if
like a car is driving by and you get
your shutter speed just right and you
turn the camera fast enough you get the
sharp subject and the blurred background
you can in the pixel's action pan mode
hold still let an object pass through
the frame take the shot and it'll blur
the background in the direction that the
object is moving to create that effect
so it's again a software trick to do
something you would have done with
hardware it's pretty smart and it's good
the other is long exposure mode same
idea you find like a waterfall or even
like light streaks from car headlights
at night and you just hold still take a
quick exposure you don't have to hold
there for very long it'll look at
everything moving and go okay here's the
direction they're moving blur and it
just makes this cool long exposure
effect so we're getting a lot of google
smarts in that direction which is like
solving for not amazing hardware yeah
don't forget about the thing with the
faces where the face is blurry it will
take a photo with the wide angle camera
at a faster shutter speed and
superimpose it yeah it's always running
a higher faster shutter speed with the
ultra wide and if it notices blurry
faces it will stitch in the sharper face
from the ultrawide into the regular shot
it's good stuff one of my favorite
things about yearly pixel launches is
that they almost always introduce some
new crazy computational photography mode
that you're just like you weren't even
thinking of like the astro mode in the
pixel 4
is literally just an extension of uh hdr
the way that the original create
originally created hdr with stacking and
and that kind of stuff and like
realigning that that stuff this year was
definitely very cool um the funny thing
is like
some of the earliest use cases for
machine learning especially in
photography has been like object
identification and knowing what an
object is because you're just comparing
hundreds of thousands of objects against
each other and then coming up with a
tighter and tighter confidence interval
and so the thing like the action pan is
built on top of that right because
you're saying this is the car this is
exactly where i'm gonna sketch out the
car to be everything else is gonna have
like a blur effect yeah and we'll talk
about magic eraser in a second but i
think that is one of the most
interesting approaches to doing a camera
there's been a lot of huawei phones i've
noticed in the past that have like an ai
camera mode and you turn on i think it's
on by default actually yeah and it will
scene detection it will yeah exactly
scene detection and it'll it'll notice
like hundreds of different varieties of
things and adjust the shot according to
how it thinks you want it
and that's the common theme i've noticed
with all these is it's adjusting the
shot based on how it thinks you want it
it sees grass on the ground we'll bump
that grass up to be more green oh you're
taking a landscape shot we're gonna make
the sky more blue here oh you're taking
a shot of your dog we're gonna bump the
contrast and sharpness here
versus maybe apple's approach with uh
photographic styles which is like here's
a rich contrast one if you want that
here's a vibrant one if you want that
here's a warm one here's a cool one
and i think the pixel is just doing
the good old-fashioned make everything
bright and contrasty and hope you like
that every time yeah and i think it
would win the blind smartphone test yeah
for the first time because contrasty is
like what people generally like yeah but
i don't know that the enthusiast
photographer in us actually likes that
more yeah some of that's interesting
something that mark lavoy um who is the
former head of computational photography
for pixel at google now is that adobe
told me when i interviewed him a few
years ago was we're not trying to make a
camera in the pixel we're trying to make
a magic imaging box
you press a button and everything just
gets done for you that's why
traditionally the pixel cameras ui has
been really stripped of any additional
settings and actually if you want to
change settings for pixel ui i think
they've rolled that back a little bit
but most of the photo camera settings
have been in the settings menu not in
the camera app itself sounds kind of
like a little closer to the apple
approach before we got the photographic
stuff before photography styles that's
the thing is like i feel like they want
to minimize the interaction because they
just want you to be able to like take
out your phone open the camera double
tap or like tap on the yeah a screen
um kind of going back to the
way that they're you said that it's like
a 7 out of 10 a lot of the time
sometimes a 10 out of 10.
um our theory for this
is that
google's used the same sensor in like
almost all its pixels two through five
exact same sensor pixel one almost
exactly the same as two yep uh actually
slightly bigger photo sights which was
interesting they like went backwards
um
but
they had like we said before the point
of computational photography is to make
up for the physical boundaries in a
device
and so google kind of figured out like
okay well
hdr is something that you can't really
get with a small sensor naturally
because you're brightening things a lot
right you're like bringing up the
shadows and you're lowering the
highlights and then also contrast and
sharpening and generally when you have a
crappy sensor
contrast and sharpening kind of allow
uh an image to look a little bit better
than it normally would if it was like
out of a blurry three megapixel
like
feature phone yeah but it'll start to
look a little more processed exactly so
so they did this for years and everyone
like was like the pixel camera's amazing
the pixel camera was amazing every
single year they got more intense with
the hdr
and i think that was the wrong move
personally like yes you can see more
detail in the shadows and yes you can
retain more highlights but the point of
like
contour
and contrast is what gives images depth
and at some point people start to look
like zombies because it lifts the
shadows in their face they look dead
grass starts to look gray like
everything sort of starts to look gray
yeah and now we have this new 50
megapixel sensor which like you said
earlier is a 12.5 i heard something
about it's like it's a physical bin
instead of a software bin and that's the
reason that you can't like switch it to
um
fifth full 50 megapixels don't
understand that i don't understand that
either
50 megapixel isn't it not a 50 megapixel
sensor then if you can never ever ever
get a 50 megapixel image from it my
guess is that apple bought up all the
good 12 megapixel large sensors oh wow
yeah and so then they had to go with
whatever is available and if it's a sony
or samsung sony and samsung like to just
be like let go high resolution our
smartphone sensors are
um but now they've got this huge sensor
and we did all this testing right i was
like okay if you shoot raw photos out of
the pixel because you can't right this
is good yeah there's a rod plus jpeg
mode you can also use like the lightroom
camera app and shoot raw
if you then you can compare what this
sensor is actually capable of versus
what google is doing in a pr in the
processing yeah we shot raw when you
shoot raw it's really flat it's like log
uh you bump the vibrance to sort of
bring color back to people's skin
um
yeah yeah i was going to go on a tangent
between vibrance and saturation which is
very confusing but i won't do that so uh
contrast curves yeah yeah so if you bump
the vibrance back up you kind of see
like okay overall quality of this image
sensor what is it
and you can see the amount of processing
that google is doing makes these images
look like a pixel 2 pixel 3 pixel 4 more
more like a pixel 5 photo because of how
much processing they're doing to the hdr
but over sharpened over contrasty
the way that it's processing into a jpeg
makes the skin break down makes the eyes
break down
pulls all of the highlights out of any
highlight pulls all the shadows up and
it also does some like distortion
correction we took this photo of adam's
face
where
on the raw it looks like his face it
looks good
but on the pixel photo it's like almost
it doesn't look
wrong but he looks different like he
looks like a different person it's like
reality went through a black box and out
the other side you got this
really shiny like impressive photo on a
phone screen but when you start to blow
it up or start to want to edit it
yourself
it's actually not as good as the
original right i think a sweet spot
would have been right in the middle and
i don't know if that's the way they
think about cameras we're like oh we
want to appease the enthusiasts and give
them a little bit of a flatter image no
they're trying to they're trying to win
the blind smartphone they're trying to
enthusiasts don't make money yeah i get
it i get it i hate i hate that i like
care about this so much because i know
that it's probably the opposite opinion
the thing is though if you really think
about it
they kind of nailed it because the
enthusiast is going to be able to take a
raw photo and do what they want with it
and
get what's needed out of it because they
all know how to do it whereas
the point-and-click is going to be
exactly for the the regular people but
like if you look what's capable out of
the sensor it looks so good it looks
like almost like a medium format camera
image because of the like the
proportions of the size of the sensor to
the lens like it's crazy the problem
just is is
the people who are buying it arguably
aren't going to notice that difference
or they're going to see like we've
proved with the smartphone testing like
yeah sharper brighter is going to be
perceived as better i totally understand
that their counter like their probably
counterpoint is like 95 percent of
people view all their photos on their
phone yep and that is true and i totally
understand i just see the capabilities
out of this phone because i blew them up
on the pro display xdr and they look
amazing i could have taken that on the
hasselblad like camera and it's like
it's crazy yeah that's that i think is
kind of tied into the whole idea of what
pixel is this year which is they're
trying to make a phone for everybody
this year i mean we've seen the
enthusiast market and it's sort of like
pixel has always been
the example of what an android phone
would be um not i mean you can buy if
you want some people bought it whoopty
do google store maybe a couple other
places but now it's just like oh yeah
we're gonna run commercials for this for
months we're gonna share this with as
many people as possible and this is our
big shot at like giving people a third
option after iphone and samsung yeah
that's a very different approach from
what pixel has been in the past and
maybe the camera sort of tilted in that
direction as a result yeah i still think
they can update it a little bit in
software i'm holding out hope we'll see
i don't think they will but i will also
hold that we'll see i'm optimistic
um magic eraser though i want to talk
about magic racer for a second it's so
fun so
this this could be a gimmick and i'm
overreacting but i loved it i mean yeah
instagram reels loved it so the world
must like it too
yeah instagram it was it was doing
really great on instagram yeah literally
you just open up a photo go to tools go
to magic eraser and it determines with
ai if there's anything in the background
you probably don't want it's pretty good
at that by itself it'll just highlight
little people behind you if you're
standing alone in the front of the frame
and there's somebody behind you over
your shoulder it'll just highlight it
right away more objects go object
detection from machine learning exactly
it knows these objects and it goes you
want to remove this and it gives you a
button and you hit erase and it just
disappears and it fills in the
background so
if you're aware of content aware fill in
photoshop or even after effects
it works really well with certain types
of backgrounds
and so all the examples we see that work
really well are typically
patterned backgrounds simple backgrounds
high contrast object versus background
and when you do that on this phone it
really does look like magic i'm telling
you you can show like your parents this
bit like fade in fade out effect that it
has yeah it just like highlights it and
just glows and disappears yeah like
that's crazy yeah that looks like the
future show out to your parents they'll
think it's the coolest thing ever i
guarantee it it's faster than photoshop
cantadora filters
so good for them um if you try like a
crazy huge object with a crazy complex
background it's going to look insane
it doesn't always work as well i think
you guys did one of it picked me out of
the back of a photo of you guys in my
desk and it
it like to agree with you like wrapped
your upper body out but your legs were
still there and then it made it it just
blurred it was just this like stretch
across it's just like content to where
phil where the area you take out if it
doesn't hit it's just kind of a smudge
yeah it doesn't know what was supposed
to be behind it it's bringing something
like a professional grade tool to common
people and letting
the basics of it work really well
letting them see it for the first time
where
i'm sure most professional people would
rather just clone stamp or something
manually rather than if if the iphone
had this people would be losing their
minds yeah this is a really cool gimmick
like
when you go to like a famous photo spot
or something or you go to like a very
popular tourist destination the
instagram ability of this for people
that you know they're like i ran across
the golden gate not going to bridge the
brooklyn bridge the other day
and
there's people running through and the
amount of people that are trying to get
that photo where it looks like they're
the only one on the bridge but then
there's everyone running through this is
the perfect scenario that's what
everyone's thinking when they see this
commercial yeah i can finally get that
photo now yeah i have this phone
so i thought it was really cool that's
that speed of it in the video i showed
that's the tensor advantage yeah i want
to talk about a thing i was surprised by
which is the battery life not being that
great yeah so i haven't published the
video yet so we'll see and i'm gonna
watch other people's reviews once i
publish this but i'm very curious what
your experience and thoughts were with
the battery because i thought it would
be amazing yeah i thought it could have
been amazing yeah i got like a little
over three to three and a half hours of
screen on time you got a little better
right yeah on the pro i was seeing like
around four probably because the ltpo
display
sure yeah yeah ltpo a little bit bigger
battery obviously it's a bigger brighter
screen but i'm i'm i never got over four
and a half yeah so it's not great
especially when you compare it to
what apple did this year with the iphone
13 series and just like and an hour and
a half more two and a half hours more
and now the
max in particular gets like 10 hours of
screen on time and that was that was my
comparison so like i when we hold up an
iphone 13 pro max it's a big phone sure
but it's very flat very tightly put
together
that phone has a 4 300 milliamp hour
battery
not that huge yeah and it's an it's a
two-day phone it's got like a crazy long
eight plus hour screen on time battery
life yeah so now google comes out with a
phone
tensor
yeah five thousand milliamp hour battery
i'm thinking wow okay yeah it's gonna be
good
um and i'm getting
half of the battery at best that the
iphone did so that was my that was my
interest um
my initial like curiosity was like oh i
guess it tensor didn't really take too
many cycles off of the high-powered
cores yeah it's not the same thing as
like apple having efficiency cores and
high power cores really like the the
tensor cores uh the tpu
are sort of separate from the low energy
cores right and your phone's sort of
doing machine learning all the time
especially pixel phones because it's
always listening for the keyword and
it's always doing these little like
smart assistant things there's a context
hub on the chip itself right and that's
supposed to be a low-ish power hub
i just think that
overall this is like the first chip
design that is built around the tpu it's
google's first attempt at sort of
designing their own chip uh manufactured
by by samsung but that doesn't matter i
think that's a confusion a lot of people
had they're like samsung's making the
chip for google it's like yeah they're
building it like tsm google's not a
foundry yeah google's not a foundry but
they designed it yeah i think this year
is was just like okay
can we make our own ship i i listened to
this interview with rick osterlow and i
think he said they started the process
of like conceptualizing it like five
years ago but they only started like
actually making it like a couple years
ago like building the design
and uh i think this year is just
making sure that they like can we
actually do this
and what is possible if we really push
like
these tpu cores to a limit right now i
think next year second generation
of most products is where you really
iron that stuff out yeah and i think
next year they'll figure out how to make
tensor work just as well while using a
lot less power i had a friend at
nationals ask me hey marquez should i
get the pixel 7 and at first i was like
what kind of dumb question is that but
then you're like wait and they were like
well i've got a pixel 4 and like i don't
really think i'm gonna get the pixel six
so i'm gonna be good for one more year
so how's the pixel seven going to be
and then i actually thought about the
iphone 14 i know like
i initially was just like i don't know
anything about that phone but i thought
about it and i was like you know what
they
the second generation of tensor yeah
it'll be their second shot at this new
camera system
and they'll probably refine a lot of
things about the design and it'll kind
of feel like a second generation of this
new pixel right and i thought about i
was like actually yeah that's probably a
good place to jump in like pixel seven
and that's not saying pixel sixes or six
pro or bad phones by any means i still
think the six is a great deal and you
should jump on it if your phone's
getting kind of old but yeah i agree
when we'll see the second generation of
tensor i'm i'm gonna be that much more
interested in battery this is also
apparently the first pixel pro pixel
phone or like higher end pixel phone
that is built by that htc team that they
acquired yeah like apparently they did
they did like the 4a or something right
but this is the first like pro one and i
the build quality yeah is not quite
iphone level um or even like high-end
oneplus phone level in my opinion like
there's a lot of weird quirks about the
build quality that make it feel like
slightly cheaper than other android
phones just a little but especially
pixel six is such a good value
that like that's something you can write
off right that's the difference though
so with pixel six with that price
i'm totally fine with it yeah with this
phone they keep saying flagship flagship
flagship and so my natural instinct when
they say that word is to compare it to
the other flagships which are a bit more
expensive yeah but you do start to see
yeah you start to see a difference there
and s21 ultra screen is way better than
the pixel 6 pro screen it just is it's a
better screen the iphone has a flat
screen i think it's also better despite
being low resolution
so it's those types of little things
with the build quality just how tightly
built it is there's a lot of seams on
the back so i agree like in the flagship
you can nitpick a bit more
but yeah if we can talk a little bit
more about tensor really quick sure um
so
as you pro as you also saw
the speed of the natural language
processing on sensor good it's just so
good it's incredible everything that i
hoped for can we do a demo right now
yeah just let me have like andrew talk
and then i put the this up next
yeah also i'm in airplane mode and
that's going to be totally fine for this
yeah because it's on device yeah all
right and you can just talk as fast as
you want talk as fast as i want i do
know guns and ships from um hamilton
is that that's pretty quick i don't know
we get demonetized i don't think so can
you say it really fast it is it is a
fast song and i'm already cringing that
i've offered this out here but um
whatever you give me one minute to like
well let me get this out yeah hold on
okay i will i trust you i'm excited for
this
i'm taking this horse by the rains
making red coats brother blood stains
and they're never gonna stop until i
make a drop and put it up and scatter
the remains
not okay
it didn't do that that was too fast it
was it was a little slurred
it has to be slurred to be that fast but
yeah um but it's still though is
continuing to do this as i'm talking
right and what's pretty impressive is
that it's keeping up with everything
it's almost at the point where i don't
know what to say the next word because
it's exactly where i am on the screen
and i'm kind of losing breath but this
is a perfect podcast contest i'm it's
like really out of breath it's a real
time it's crazy it's really impressive
although now it is getting a little
confused because you're talking in the
background over some of the things and
that's where the one time where it seems
to kind of uh go off to remember who it
was but somebody wrote most of their
pixel 6 review with
the voice i was gonna say that's voice
attacks this has changed the way i think
i'm going to use this phone which is i
want to use voice more often as much as
possible i'm texting with the voice a
lot more oh yeah they got the little
little mic in the keyboard i just
michael was doing that too yeah last
night he's just like texting like long
paragraphs at this point exactly and it
punctuates you well and if you're in the
middle of something and catch
something being wrong while the mic is
still going you can go
cursor around different parts of it and
replace words
it has content awareness so if you
correct a name spelling one time it'll
remember that later if you are texting
somebody about somebody it will remember
the name and the spelling of the person
your contacts that you're talking to
them about it's it's really really does
it say mkbhd or does it say i'm kim phd
fantastic question i've never tried it
and i might as well just try it right
now ready yeah
let's do this live i'm gonna screen
record what is up guys this is this is
the
the real truth yeah all right here we go
hey what is up guys mkbhd here welcome
back to another video and it did
actually get it right wow incredibly now
they just need to like run the youtube
thing on their tpus yeah and then we'll
be good
that is not what i expected usually it
gives you some sort of a weird phd was
one i forget what some of the other ones
were because i banned them from our
subreddit because they got so annoying
but um that's good yeah so the other
thing with the natural language
processing is like you can
live
translate with live captions so live
caption is something that they
introduced last year i believe
where you basically on device without
internet you can caption any content
that is on your phone so if you take a
video of your kids recital or something
you're watching it back it will just put
the captions live as you're watching the
video which is incredible and now if uh
if you're watching any video in a
different language
it will show you captions in your
language live translation without
internet
unbelievable unbelievable this is the
type of stuff that doesn't appear on any
benchmark like no matter how good your
chip is this is the type of stuff you
can't really measure until you just use
it and you're like oh this is incredible
yeah so that's why i said in the video
the delta between the benchmarks and the
usages is massive here my theory is
we've really sort of hit this limit with
cpu and gpu performance more cpu i guess
but where you can't really tell the
difference between this year's flagship
smartphone and last year's flagship
smartphone so what should we be trying
to make better year-over-year it's the
ml stuff it's the stuff that is actually
going to be helpful to us on a
day-to-day basis
like all of this stuff that feels like
magic like our tech is starting to feel
like magic let's just accelerate the
magic right yeah fully in fully in on
that yeah all right so we got to talk
about whether we're going to upgrade to
these phones then somebody asked me did
you ask me earlier oh no yeah you said
are you going to main this phone yeah
um
yeah
yeah i'm going to mean this yeah i mean
this this is to me it comes down to
android 12. i really like a lot of the
features and to me it was between this
and the s21 ultra which i've made more
than any other phone this year fun fact
for the podcast yeah uh i really like
the oneplus 9 pro the screen is so much
better on the samsung that i went to it
it's still better than the pixel but i
like android 12 that much yeah google
assistant call screening live
transcription all these little things
the camera is good enough i'm i'm
probably just sticking with pixel yeah i
i tweeted a couple days ago and this is
a very classic tweet but like this is
the hardest year for me on whether or
not to be on the latest pixel or on an
iphone
and previously i didn't really care that
much but then i started this job and
then we started using a lot of apple
products and then i got locked into the
ecosystem and now it's like i feel the
chains yeah um but android 12 for me is
a huge reason like tensor is amazing all
that all the smart natural language
processing stuff is great but android 12
just feels so like fun and friendly and
it feels like such a huge refresh when
it comes to like specifically material u
when it comes to like the experience of
your pixel because you say like change
your wallpaper change your life right
now change your wallpaper change your
life and change your system theme change
your accent colors exactly exactly not
the accent button though still yeah i'm
sad about that yeah change your
wallpaper change your accent button that
would be crazy that would be crazy put a
little led in there andrew patton
pending there yeah we did questions
you're the one that owns a pixel 4 right
now yeah you can upgrade okay so like
this
hearing everything i haven't tried it
yet but like
everything you guys say is so
exciting and the battery life just makes
me so sad so here's a question how good
is the battery life on your pixel four
because that that phone did not have
great battery life i mean yeah but i
hope that two years later is better than
the phone i'm using that's two years old
um the thing is is like ultimately i
think i still probably will because i
just know my day-to-day usage revolves
around having chargers in pretty
opportune spots like i have a long
commute i have a wireless charger on my
desk i have a wireless charger on my
desk at home i have one by my bed so
like i highly doubt it will happen and
if i'm
going on a long hike going on a long
trip i have a battery bank i can keep
with me it's not that big of a deal
it just feels like it hurts really bad
like it feels like it's they added all
these amazing things that like you said
are magical like this phone feels
magical in so many senses
and then the battery just seems like
such an obvious thing that should be
better and when you see those numbers
feels like it should be better and yeah
i think it's just kind of sad i think
tensor is just power hungry if this is
get the pixel 7
yeah yeah i'm just gonna daily if this
phone had the iphone's battery life i
would i would no recommend this phone so
fast so many people absolutely it's
battery's important and i think that's
the issue is like when you compare it to
an iphone like
i i know people who are pixel users and
didn't really like some of the newer
ones so they went to iphone and this was
one where they're thinking of coming
back and i was just like i don't
i don't know if it's the one that's
coming it's funny with this the script
is flipped the iphone always used to be
like i love ios but the battery sucks
and now it's literally the opposite
crazy i think i have some nerdy friends
too who like uh
you know on that branch of nerdy not
quite us nerdy but like um like liked
android stuff and then but once you go
to iphone it's it's hard times it's
really hard to come back so hard to get
out i'm saying that as someone who's
never done it and i understand how
difficult i regret it it's factual i
regret it i think i will probably get a
regular six though yeah um i think this
is an insane deal i might wait till it
even goes on sale it probably will
because it's google that's which is
what's also really fun about it friday
baby it's coming up yeah
so we'll see i might
we'll see shipping dates are pretty when
are you getting yours adam you ordered
one already yeah i ordered mine and it's
supposed to be coming here this friday i
believe oh i thought it was like not too
late in november pretty good yeah it's
october 29th or 30th is the estimated
delivery date it's pretty good okay what
color did you get stormy black six pro
or six six yeah strawberry blackberries
i think i might get green
see i want to see it in person i haven't
seen the green one i might do it michael
has it we were comparing colors at home
yeah it's two different greens right top
yeah yeah yeah it's more darker green on
the top and more of like a uh acid green
it's like a matte black but it's nothing
like
that iphone green right like it's iphone
great there's like an army group yeah
they're all like olive army like which i
really do like i love that color yeah
yeah that's like a classy color but
google is going google and doing the
thing i'll put a case on it either way
so i guess mean it can't really matter
very well it doesn't matter then
and if you want mag safe that's fair
yeah i have a great segue um because we
were just talking about it's actually
too good of a segue to really go
smoothly i was gonna say every great
segue starts with saying that it's a
great yeah it's too good of a segue but
i'll explain it so that it's way worse
okay so we were just talking about
android versus iphone and how hard it is
to get into one or the other and get
across that bridge um i've had a couple
bluetooth issues with the tesla app on
android haven't had that issue i think
at all since i got the iphone 13 where
the phone is your key and it's bluetooth
and it's just proximity to your car
uh so we can talk about tesla now what a
great segway
hey beautiful nail that all right
tesla trillion dollar market cap that's
all i wanted to say good god that's cool
yeah good god actually the reason they
hit a trillion dollar market cap is
because of the news that what was it
hertz
bought a 100
thousands yeah which i had so big
account i
i've i mean it's not a hundred thousand
tesla's or a hundred thousand dollars
the money to buy a hundred thousand
tesla lamborghini account
that's a lot no that's it's a big
investment for for hertz because they
clearly want to offer electric cars and
so now they've bought a hundred thousand
of them and that's the electric car that
they've chosen to invest in to offer to
people so it says a lot about hertz it
says a lot about tesla it says a lot
about electric cars yeah um tesla's
market cap skyrockets great
i just think like
everywhere i go i i kind of want when i
whenever i rent a car i try not to
whenever i do rent a car i want to get
something like similar to what i'm used
to
um the fact that people are interested
to be out there renting model threes
just casually is pretty cool pretty good
i would they're careful on saying casual
though because it's not their base it's
like their premium luxury rentals so
it's not just like your everyday rental
that most people most people renting
cars i would say usually go the cheapest
possible route for being able to get
around so it's like compact budget cars
this won't be those definitely
understandably um but the fact that
they've gotten there will be more out
there i think the chance that people
will be able to drive them more like be
able to test and actually drive one for
a few days which is like way more than
just a test drive i'd use turo to drive
a model three like four years ago yeah
that's actually a really interesting
point i just have to work for a tech
channel and i got the intro people will
be uh trying to rent these just to test
drive them i think that will actually be
the case um i think people will rent
them to try them see how they what they
like about it that's the kiss of death i
test drove a tesla for eight minutes and
was hooked so if you rent it for a
couple days you're gonna really want
that car
when i test drove my first uh tesla i'd
not driven in five years and i had to
drive around new york city and i
thought i was going to die as stressful
yeah actually the first time i ever
drove a tesla was a model s p 85 plus
in white i made a video about it when i
was in college it was in new york
and they drove it over to me and i got
to like drive around new york city for a
couple minutes i was very interested
really liked it
um i was i think i was kind of hooked
because i was driving a different car
and then as i got back i like got out
the car like all right cool that was fun
we shot the rest of our video and
they're like you done with it and
they're like yeah and then the guy got
in the car and just
punched it and i saw the cars go in new
york oh
that's cool like no other car does what
that guy just did real quick into the
parking garage there
and i think that was that was when i was
hooked the cool thing about this hurst
thing though is that means there's
probably going to be more chargers right
there are going to be more chargers
they've um
it says hertz plans to set up level 2
and dc fast charging stations in 65
cities by the end of 2022 um and more
than a hundred
more by the end of 2023 so like lesbian
hurts like that i don't know i'm hoping
not um it also kind of i mean any more
infrastructure is good infrastructure
depending on how many they put though
you only need to charge the car until
full and then charge rate before someone
rents one
i'm sure it'll depend on how they're
being used how often they're being used
how many
they have versus how many cars they have
that are rented out because like if a
car is rendered for a week they
obviously are not going to have a
charger empty for a week yeah this is
interesting they'll have priority though
there's a bunch of questions that
actually just came to my mind about
renting an electric car is one
um i hope you have one because one i
thought was kind of interesting oh well
i was just gonna say when you
have a car sitting in a parking lot for
a couple days with no one renting it it
just sits with the gas and the gas tank
yeah with electric cars there is a
little bit of phantom drain over time
yeah right and i'm curious if they're
just going to leave those cars plugged
in that whole time or will they have to
have somebody go around constantly
maintaining all the electric cars making
sure they don't drain i would think i
would assume
keep it to a certain point
which is which this is that point would
be like if we get this car rented for
tomorrow we can have it
topped off or if we even if we get this
car rented in the next couple of hours
if it's available
other than that you just check your
schedule and know when a car is going to
be rented and can top it off before that
um what i thought was kind of
interesting and just different for
rental is like what is the one thing you
dread when you return a rental car the
cost for gas exactly yeah so they say
right now um
they don't have a set standard for what
you'll have to do you can return it
essentially not at full okay uh they can
just charge it there yeah they can just
charge it there so in the gas station
ultimately i hope they keep it like that
you always wonder these places are
trying to make money the whole gas
station figure out how to make as much
money as possible i'll figure out a way
to charge you if you can't then you kind
of have to add a little time now to you
returning cars if you're trying to catch
a plane if you need to charge it if you
need to return at 100. i'm really hoping
that's not the case it seems like a
total money grab if it was and it would
just i will tell you the first time that
i rented a model 3 on turo the guy that
i rented it from said you have to return
the car at a 100 percent charge and i
was like one that's not possible because
when i charge it and then drive it back
yeah
yeah and then and then the other thing
was that there were no tesla
superchargers in that vicinity so
that was the first time i'd ever driven
an electric car yeah so i had like an
hour to get it to him i pull in and it's
like this is going to take three and a
half hours to charge so i ended up
returning it two hours late he charged
me like a fifty dollar convenience speed
it was just that is a
sneaky guy yeah yeah well i hope hertz
isn't run by this sneaky guy
i mean these companies tend to do this
to make money but i'm i'm seeing level
two so level two is like what you might
have with like a dryer plug or something
like that you can charge like 25 30
miles an hour that's just how i measure
like how many miles you add to the
battery we're like level one plugging
into like a trickle charger
three miles an hour tops yeah so level
two is somewhere in the middle level
three would be like your superchargers
on the side of the road
those are great so when i see
they're setting up a bunch of level two
fast chargers i think that means they
will be for all of their electric cars
yeah to at least be able to use but
mostly a bunch of new teslas so that
would also give me the impression that
they are wanting to leave them plugged
in because if your voltage is uh your
voltage like your pipe is wider but
you're not pushing as much electricity
through it that's better for your
battery got it yeah that's the type of
charger we have at the studio just level
two fast charging yeah
one other thing is as of right now up
until february i guess this is rolling
out like as we speak um up until
february you'll get free super charging
through the hertz rental but they're not
sure how they're doing it after that
quite yet so
that one that's interesting that is an
awesome
like reason to get a premium you know
rental you're spending a little more but
if you can get free supercharging that's
awesome
um after that then i wonder
how does it work because like when
you're
someone who doesn't own a tesla when
you're using superchargers do both do
both of you have free supercharging
right now or do you pay i don't have i
have supercharging credit okay so why
does this unlock so when you do it is it
just it knows your car when you go up or
so i guess
i guess the easiest way would do is
hertz would just send you the bill
afterwards on charging because it's
hooked to there oh no the car knows it
has credit the car itself knows it has
credited yeah but i'm saying when you
are gonna go rent one of these cars now
and you have to pay for charging past if
they don't
there's no way they continue to keep
free super charging no that's fine so
the car will know it has tesla
supercharging credit but if you plug
into a non-tesla supercharger you will
have to pay when you're there
how is the rental person going to pay a
tesla supercharger when it's not their
car
is what i'm saying so i'm thinking the
easiest way would just be
it is hooked up to hertz they know how
much they're getting charged for that
car build it's probably hooked up to
hurts and i think it does yeah through
february
yeah that's
about to expire i mean that's what the
the response that i believe i was
looking at like an axios
or axios or car and driver that was the
response they got from hertz wow is that
up until february 2022
you'll have one day of doing it i don't
even know if elon can make a hundred
thousand more model threes before then
the trunks will be falling off hey this
isn't the monkey
[Laughter]
well yeah that's that's pretty much all
we had i mean we also had like a tesla
rolling out and rolling back 10.3 yeah i
don't have a whole i haven't i still
don't have the beta
um
that's pretty much it yeah
that's kind of all i had to say yeah um
yeah this continues the trend of having
at least one tesla reference probably on
every waveform episode but lots of tech
happening it's still tucked over like
the reviews of all these things yeah
coming out pixel's out but definitely
stay tuned for the macbook pro review
stay tuned for the airpods 3 review stay
tuned for maybe another phone coming up
maybe another random thing that's not
phones or headphones there's other stuff
in the pipeline too so this is also the
last uh episode before halloween so have
a spooky
halloween my friend make sure you have a
good tech related tech related
jack-o'-lanterns send me pictures oh
yeah tech related costumes if you uh
dress up as the waveform podcast we will
retweet you don't know how to do it
that's up to you and you've got about
two days by the time this episode comes
out so we will definitely retweet you if
you do that good luck yeah
thanks for watching catch you guys in
the next one
you wanna mac do you want to read us out
no
okay you can help them a thousand yards
waveform is produced by adam molino we
are partnered with vox media and our
intro outro music was created by vayne
