all right what's up everybody welcome
back to another episode of the waveform
podcast we're your hosts i'm marquez and
i'm andrew and it's appleweek i don't
know if you uh i don't know if you knew
but there was some apple stuff this week
thank you if you're listening to this
podcast you know about it if you if you
somehow didn't know
yeah surprise there was uh one of there
there may be more but uh one of the
final events of the year for apple their
september event which is where we get a
couple things we know are are coming and
we actually did have a couple surprises
and we'll talk about that stuff briefly
but we also have a couple quick news
hits at the top that are unrelated to
their event that you wanted to dive into
yeah they're both related to apple
though so i thought we'll just go really
quick since this is a whole apple
episode um apple vs epic we kind of got
the ruling after the whole lawsuit we've
talked about it before
epic suing apple because they made them
take out a button that was letting
people pay on a third party site and
apple obviously with their ios store and
their 30 cut doesn't want that to happen
um so
it kind of is like a
win lose lose more even though that's
three parties and there's only two
parties associated in this yeah it
seemed like everybody was not happy yeah
kind of kind of sort of so pretty much
um
the judge ruled that
they are not being anti-competitive they
claim success is not illegal and both
apple and third-party developers like
epic have symbiotically benefited from
the ever-increasing innovation and
growth from the ios ecosystem fair feels
pretty fair
now
they did also though and this is what
kind of
is a lose aspect for apple is that they
uh they ruled there for a permanent
nationwide injunction blocking apple not
only from keeping iphone users in the
dark about alternate ways to pay but
potentially allowing developers to stick
their own purchase mechanisms into apps
so
that's a win for developers i mean yeah
so so initially that one rule that uh
epic was pretty mad about was that
in-app purchases had to go through
apple's payment method which
automatically took a 30 cut
and the argument was why should there be
an only apple in-app purchase method
there should be other options yeah we
should be able to have our own in-app
purchase methods we should be able to
offer alternates maybe some of them are
cheaper because they don't have to go
through a 30 cut from apple and this
ruling is that apple will now
need to allow
other
purchase methods for in-app purchases
yeah and there's a little bit of they're
not quite sure how this is going to work
what constitutes a button inside it and
stuff so that'll be a little um weird
but so the reason epic doesn't really
win on this is because the way they
started this whole suit was by adding
that and the judge also ruled that it
was a breach of the contract and apple
is allowed to continue to
not basically let fortnite back into the
store not give them back their developer
account so while you are they're
blocking that and you will potentially
be able to put a button in for this kind
of skirting the rules
epic can't because they're not allowed
back in the apple store epic knew what
they were doing when they broke the
rules yeah so developers when
apple kind of loses epic really loses
because
they're not back on the ios store and
they also had to pay some sort of a fine
because of the money that they made in
that process of breaching the contract
so that's a super super tldr version of
it i'll have links in the description so
you can read the full thing it's super
interesting um but yeah it's been going
on for a long time and
yeah it also seems like it's far from
over any time there's a big suit like
this it's just like all right another
year of like back and forth between like
re-suiting each other so
that is uh still developing but that's
at least some development
exactly um and then the other thing is
somehow kind of relevant to the event um
but apparently this has been going on
for a long time i hadn't heard of it
until the event happened but it looks
like we have another case of apple
sherlocking an app
um do you want to explain what
sherlocking is real quick well yeah so
we made a video about the relationship
between apple and those who develop
products specifically attached to apple
products um sort of described as like a
shark and uh the remora relationship if
you're more a shark you
you you do something the shark doesn't
want to do or doesn't necessarily feel
like they have to do but that is your
only purpose
and if suddenly the shark decides they
don't need you anymore you're out of
there uh so apple will sometimes decide
to pivot and do something that one of
those developers was doing on their own
in which case your app has been
essentially sherlocked stolen yeah and
sherlock was an app that did that it
helped you look through your files right
and now finder yeah that's the the
infamous example is the sherlock app
that is no longer useful because apple
made it themselves and called it
spotlight okay yeah sorry yeah
um and so
what we're seeing now is this actually
happened back in january but there's an
app called flick type which
i've never used um but what it looks
like is some we're all pretty familiar
with swipe like
it's the it's the keyboard yeah yeah so
this was a keyboard that was
made but made mostly because one of the
options was it had an apple watch
way of being able to type and respond
quicker um in january it got kicked off
of the app store um quoting the app is a
keyboard for the apple watch for this
reason your app will be removed from the
sale of the app store at this time
uh so that was a while ago in that proc
since then the developer of flick type
has sued apple um but what we saw was at
the event
when uh showing off the apple watch
series seven there was something
extremely extremely similar to it which
was that new kind of like swiping
feature
there's a full keyboard that you can
either tap or slide from letter to
letter with quick path which uses
machine learning to predict the word
you're typing skipping ahead a little
bit but i watched when we were watching
that i saw you know the apple watch has
series seven has a much bigger screen
yeah so they i've been used to typing
like one letter at a time or drawing out
letters on the apple watch to respond to
messages and they showed this full
qwerty keyboard on the watch i was like
okay who would ever want to do like full
qwerty typing on that tiny watch screen
but i guess you know maybe swipe typing
would be yeah easier from what i've
looked like flick type looks like kind
of a mix between swipe and it almost
reminds me of t9 where it starts kind of
like guessing the words you're using
based on letters you're picking and
through the examples i saw because i've
never used it it looks pretty functional
like it looks like a good way to type on
you know a not ideal situation on your
watch but yeah after that the creator of
uh flick type tweeted like well guess we
know why we got kicked off the store now
yeah because that's weird why would you
so they got kicked off the app store
just because they were a keyboard on the
apple watch is that not allowed or
something
i don't know the exact and i'm sure
there's some nuance to this i'm sure
apple will have a reason as to why they
kicked them off not just because like
hey we're doing this as well i mean it's
very possible their rule was like you're
not allowed to make a keyboard for the
apple watch it's possible that was one
of the rules it could be i just i don't
know exactly what it is yeah um but the
the email that the guy tweeted
that like what i said was from it was
this is an app for the
a keyboard for the apple watch and for
this reason your app will be removed
from the sale of the app store at this
time okay um that happened in january
now we obviously see what's going on i'm
sure there's more nuance to it but
yeah another sherlock i guess and um the
thing is is
even if they didn't take it off the app
store just developing this and putting
it out there would essentially
completely kill that app why would
anyone download something that is now
just default on it so yeah it would have
to be better in some way like there are
other third-party keyboards for the
iphone but the iphone has a pretty good
keyboard
but yeah anyway that's a perfect segue
into talking about the event that we had
on tuesday so apple had their september
california streaming event it's uh it's
yet another digital event so they're not
back to in-person events yet we all knew
the iphone was coming but there was some
other stuff coming and it turned out
california streaming was this sort of
symbolism for them using a bunch of
different locations so they had a a lot
of drone shots in this episode
transitioning to like santa monica and
to the redwood forest into all these
other places
i think uh joshua tree was timmy
i was actually when he tweeted that
picture you were like i don't think this
is going to be at the steve jobs theater
yeah and i was like oh california
streaming with a picture of a mountain
and a lake i was like this is going to
be all over california i was pretty
excited that i guess yeah yeah they
definitely it's before yeah a lot of
drone shots a lot of drone shots
fantastic drone shots and good ones yeah
yeah so the production quality was
top-notch as always uh i think they had
a moment where they accomplished exactly
what one of the one plus events i think
failed so hard at oh they'll like
transition between yeah
it was like a perfect transition this
lady was talking in one environment
about one thing with all of these new
features this is by far the most
powerful and versatile ipad mini ever
then went across a wall and which
created a wipe transition to a new
environment where she continued to talk
about a new different thing and with
both the new ipad and ipad mini we
continue our commitment to the
environment
and i just i had flashbacks to that one
plus transition where they were talking
about one thing crossed over the wall
and were in the same
environment
outside the door and then they went back
in the door after yeah yeah this like
this worked because just like
in general the shot and the framing and
everything was like perfect and then
also just the context of what was
happening like it she was talking about
something else it moved to a different
area it just fit with the presentation
it yeah it nailed what yeah oneplus was
trying to do that one time so i enjoyed
that i was also looking for a meme
moment i don't think we got one
i don't think we got a meme open a big
one this one felt way more like produced
almost
parts of it almost reminded me of the
pixel 5 event where like aspects of it
almost felt commercially does that make
sense like a lot of like upbeat music
multiple cuts feels very much like a
commercial or almost like a music video
and i think that was their just kind of
like between segment
vibe that they were going for yeah
because they had such big transitions to
pull off like you're not going from
upstairs in the lab to downstairs in the
silicon lab you're going from
one desert to a forest to a mountain to
a beach so they got to really spruce it
up so yeah it did feel kind of uh you
know california casual but there were a
bunch of things announced some of them
we were expecting some of them we
weren't i say we start with the ipads
yeah let's just go in order yeah yeah
actually yeah that's the the order of
the event was ipad first so we got a new
budget ipad the infamous 329 ipad it is
once again in the same body as before
and it didn't really get all that much
improvements but it is a spec bump this
time so it's got the a13 bionic chip
which is 20 faster across the board
versus the last gen and it's got a new
selfie camera i believe it's now the 12
megapixel ultra wide that has center
stage yeah i think that's the biggest
feature added to it that's pretty much
it it's still got the home button still
got the thicker bezels still got the
small back camera with no bump still got
a lightning port it's still that old
hardware and that oldish screen
but it's 329
and so that spec bump is nice for that
price but it's not really much different
from the old one i think like
though in the times that we're in with
way more video calling adding a better
front-facing camera and yeah center
stage is actually pretty amazing for
something that affordable like just
being able to get this in the hands of
more people and 300 for schools
we're just seeing people need that more
and more um hopefully not for much
longer but it is nice to see that i
think that's just like a cool little
announcement for maybe not the tech
heads here but i think that will
actually benefit a ton of people yeah
i'm going to add this to the i'm going
to have a theme for this episode of
things they should have added a year ago
yeah i think this would have been great
for different reasons but i think this
would have been great about a year ago
for obviously the pandemic and obviously
the beginning of all the video calls
everyone had to start doing for sure uh
so that's the the new budget ipad ipad
mini honestly star of the show yeah this
was like the one no one nobody was
really expecting it yeah so we all had
our
you know our iphone hats on going into
the event but the ipad mini got the
biggest redesign year over year because
it's been couple years since they
refined the ipad mini so okay it's
basically
a small ipad air yeah from what i can
tell all the improvements across paper
and across specs minus a couple things
are ipad air shrunken down so it's got
this new design that i really like it's
the flat edges smaller bezels
it's funny it's an 8.3 inch screen on
the ipad mini and it's got this bezel
size that's still a little bit thick but
i feel like it's a little bit thick
because you still need a place to put
your your fingers when you're holding it
and so even if it's the same size bezel
as the ipad air when you shrink it down
to a small screen it looks kind of like
a big bezel honestly is the fact that
it's all even it just makes it look nice
all the way around yeah so it's got a
larger 12 megapixel camera on the back
it's the first ipad mini with a camera
bump
so there's actually a little uh little
bump just like the ipad air on the back
it's not too dramatic but it is there
and it's not that yeah um
it's the a what is it 15
inside a15 bionic so it's 40 faster
cpu 80 faster gpu again it's been a
while since the refreshed ipad mini so
this is much better performance
uh it also gets usb type c like the ipad
air and it gets a touch id fingerprint
reader like the ipad air
the one weird quirk i noticed is the
volume buttons are also at the top
alongside the touch id power button did
you notice that i didn't but just you
saying it it makes more sense because
it's smaller and you're not reaching up
there on this giant ipad instead you're
saying like the top like the top top
right not on the sides yeah like if you
hold the ipad like a piece of paper like
a rectangle the touch id buttons on the
top right yeah the button volume buttons
are also on the top on the top left okay
i expected them to be alongside like the
ipad air yeah that still would probably
make the most sense but yeah so i'm
curious why they did that maybe it's
because you mostly have it in landscape
mode and if they knew that they should
have moved the location of the selfie
camera but that's another story um but
it does get the 12 megapixel ultra wide
selfie camera with center stage it also
gets 5g and it supports the second gen
apple pencil magnetizes to the side just
like the ipad air so it's a 499 dollar
mini ipad air what do you think of the
price
i think that's about right 4.99 now in
the tablet world at that price you do
see a lot of other like seven inch
tablets popping up
and it's funny like every time you talk
about tablet prices and being
competitive i can't help but compare it
to other ipads because like there's not
that many other competitive tablets
there's there's some stuff at the very
high end there's some samsung and huawei
tablets out there
but like for 4.99 would i rather have
any other tablet than this one not
really yeah so ipad mini is pretty sweet
here's my favorite thing about this
which comes from the usbc is the way
they described it by saying like this
gets usbc which is x amount better x
amount faster blah blah blah than its
predecessor which we all know is
lightning
which is just hilarious to me because
you're saying all these reasons as to
why it's better but we still see
lightning in the iphone yeah the mental
gymnastics required to defend usbc in
the ipad but then defend lightning in
the iphone are
very impressive it's just very funny
it's hilarious to me yeah and it's not
even like a pro thing anymore all the
ipads except for the baseline budget
ipad have usb-c so every time they
explain usb-c they're like oh it's a
better port it's got more bandwidth
it is not thunderbolt
as the ipad pro okay but it is just usbc
which is the same as the rest of the
ipad so i love it i i had this thought i
was just tweeting about how it could be
like a
like an in-the-wall smart home
screen like imagine having an ipad mini
just cutting a hole in the wall put it
put that ipad mini in there and that's
probably the best smart home assuming
you have home kit assuming all your
accessories are home kit and assuming
home kit works for all of you
assuming it all works but that would be
like a pretty sweet remote for turning
your lights on turning on whatever else
your cameras whatever stuff you've got
going on in your smart home yeah it's
cool i
i kind of agree without even the putting
it in the wall i feel like the mini
aspect of it is nice because it can just
kind of float around your house for
different things like hey we have a
party going on in the backyard now i
want to turn my string lights on i want
to control the music oh it's night time
let's all move it inside to the dining
room now bring that into the dining room
with you yeah so like doing it like that
you could put any ipad in the wall and i
guess it would just look tackier the
bigger it is but yeah having the small
one and just being able to kind of bring
it around the house is nice yeah it's
just it's discreet i i was very tempted
to get one yeah i think uh it it really
strikes me as like the ultimate mobile
note-taking thing i am as a reviewer i'm
always taking notes on the go i'm
driving this this volvo for review for
top gear and i'm always just like
opening google keep on my phone and like
you know having a voice note real quick
when i notice something or like going
back to my computer and i notice another
thing i want to take a note on i open
another app and i have notes all over
the place and it would be nice to have
just anytime i have a note i just grab
the ipad mini pull out the pencil and
write it down
and that
was
very tempting to me but i also want to
use my ipad all the time for watching
videos and media and doing other stuff
and the way i use my ipad pro i love 120
hertz and this ipad mini is still 60hz
i've got the perfect solution for you
okay the s pen on the full three
the s it's got everything you're asking
for it's right there for you it's got
120 no it doesn't because it doesn't
stick to the side of the fold that's the
one thing just get the case ah i don't
like a case i'm not a big case person i
can put a skin on the ipad even if even
if i do a folio on the front i feel like
you think i'm serious about it no i just
want to confirm i feel like you're
playing a devil's advocate of a real
commenter who's gonna suggest that um no
i i like i'd rather have
the ipad yeah and the apple pencil can i
take this a step further
pen and paper
pen and paper get out of here leave huh
yeah
uh the thing about pen and paper is uh
now i have no good argument against it i
was gonna say it's wasteful but
you know charging electronics is not
much better
i
i don't know i'm just i'm super into the
note taking aesthetic of ipad mini and i
think it's gonna be good for students
and a lot of people who take a lot this
is a random question when you have like
android auto can and you've got google
assistant on it right you can take note
like you can ask it to write a note down
right
uh i think there's probably a command i
can do for that where i take a note in
google keep i mean it's just regular
google assistant like we were messing
around with it on the road trip a bunch
and just telling it to play music it's
great it just like on the screen had a
little button for google assistant and
you could just ask it to do whatever so
i can only assume yeah yeah no but the
my problem which is entirely me problem
is i have three different places that i
take notes which is
on me i have apple notes i have google
keep and i have my tasks app is there
not something like like evernote that
can be on all of them and
yeah and sync yeah i actually used to
use evernote um and i've tried a couple
other universal note-taking solutions i
don't know that's again it's a me
problem they never really stick like i
like the idea of the apple pencil just
swiping out from the corner and just
taking an apple notes app and that's
only going to work with apple notes but
anyway that was uh that was a fun
redesign it's got a couple new colors
also there's this new apple color they
keep calling starlight this is going to
come up again in the future but it's
kind of like a faded gold
and they're you know it's kind of an
interesting name they don't really know
someone calling it pink no
uh i don't think it's no they have a
separate pink there's a different
picture on the ipad mini there is a
purple
and on the iphone
i think there is a pink but
this is
the same thing starlight
i think starlight is somewhere in
between silver and gold it's like a
faded gold even though we still have a
silver so i just wanted to
shout out that new like somewhat
interesting color name starlight so well
so while i go and um look up all the
different colors of the iphones before
our next segment let's hop on a quick ad
break we'll be back with um apple watch
series 7 and then obviously the new
iphones this episode of waveform is
brought to you by peloton so if home is
where the heart is then it can also be
where the cardio is so with peloton you
get one of the best workouts your life
without ever having to leave or step out
of your front door peloton has
revolutionized the at-home exercise
experience because when you bring
peloton home you're not just purchasing
a piece of machinery you gain access to
an entire new world basically so peloton
has really increased my workout volume
more than i expected so just being able
to have not only a stationary bike but
to have classes that i can take with my
friends right in my house is a game
changer and i don't ever have to worry
about if the weather is nice to actually
go for a real bike ride outside i just
don't have to drive to the gym after a
long day of editing it's just great to
help stay in shape for the ultimate
season without adding a ton of time onto
my already busy schedule even if you're
working out from home peloton plugs you
in to a global network of writers so you
can cheer each other on challenge each
other for no matter what you're doing
honestly building strength building
endurance or even building a meditation
practice so peloton has you covered
however you like to move cardio yoga
pilates running it's all there and it's
all on your schedule so with the peloton
bike there's nothing like working out at
home learn more at one peloton dot com
new members can try peloton classes free
for 30 days at onepelton.com
app terms apply that's
o-n-e-p-e-l-o-t-o-n.com
all right welcome back let's talk about
the last two things the two probably
biggest things to come out of the uh the
event that we're more expecting which is
the watch and the phones that we were
expecting yes i would
huh i mean we weren't expecting
everything that happened with the watch
but we were expecting a new watch okay
yeah we were expecting a new watch i
think
i think this is these are the two
biggest things that came out of the
event one because it was what we weren't
expecting if you say expecting because
of all the leaks right and then
obviously there's a big feature an
iphone we'll get to later that i think
was the biggest part of the entire event
lots of things that didn't happen with
the watch in the phone yes that's a good
theme yeah okay so the watch apple watch
series seven so quick summary
better screen okay that's it any
thoughts i think no it's it is a uh 20
bezel all the way around which makes the
screen area bigger it is the exact same
shape but now the screen area is bigger
it gets even closer to that very edge
where the body hits the glass the glass
is slightly more curved right i i made
it sound like i think that's why it
feels like the smaller bezel too almost
like that the infinity edge on like
samsung phones is that little bit of
curvature on the top clasp
they laminate the screen right up until
the edge so we'll see i want to see it
in person because this is what i was
talking about in the video which is on
my current apple watch shape there is a
solid amount of reflections all the way
around the corners and the top and the
bottom and this is going to be even more
reflective and this text on the screen
is going to get even more into those
well yeah because if it's on the curve
part on the side that's pulling the
reflection all the time now you're going
to start losing
information on the screen right yeah so
we'll see i might be wrong maybe it
doesn't matter at all but that is the
biggest uh difference there's also a set
a much brighter display which is going
to be cool to see both indoors and
outside yeah we saw that a little
uh swipe type keyboard implication uh
application which is pretty cool but
obviously a lot more bigger buttons and
bigger things happening on the bigger
screen
it's the first dust resistant apple
watch it's also still water resistant i
think it's dust resistant because now
the speaker is a slot instead of a hole
i mean it's like a couple small slots
instead of holes
and it is now going to charge 33 faster
with a new usbc charger in the box uh
underrated i think that faster charging
is really nice i'm one of those weird
freaks who wears the apple watch 24 7
including when i sleep
and so the couple of times during the
week that i find to charge it are pretty
crucial when do you charge it that
every time i shower okay which is like a
solid like half hour of charging which
is usually pretty great and when i wake
up in the morning it's my alarm and it
wakes me up i take it off when i wake up
put it on the charger while i get ready
to do stuff why not in the car
um
it's a short enough drive i guess yeah
it could be useful right because of uh
that's when i found it the best i would
i when i was using it for when we were
doing all the concerts i put it in the
car my commute's a bit longer but like
that was the one time where i never felt
like it needed to track anything like
yeah i mean it's minuscule but you're
losing steps when you're doing it in the
shower and getting ready in the morning
you know david might sneak up on you
when a competition
you'll just be wishing you had those
shower steps this is very fair i think i
might take that new usbc charger and put
it in the car yeah that might be the
move um series 7 is going to start at
3.99 there's some new colors i think you
were liking that green you and david
like the green color right i like green
anything it's a nice little green color
i don't love the apple watch but yeah
okay it's like sometimes the apple watch
looks really nice and then i'm like i
don't feel like this looks like much
watch on my wrist well there's a whole
watch conversation to be had for sure
but yeah there are some new colors and
uh i think i ultimately usually go with
a neutral color watch and then like if i
want to spice up the bands at certain
times
i'll do that they'll all look great but
the problem is is then you worry about
it not matching with something you're
wearing that day so neutral just always
is the best option exactly i'm sure
those are the most popular so the thing
with this is is like
we didn't really read that much
difference here would you recommend
anybody upgrades from a series six to a
series seven no no one right no uh this
is one of those small incremental year
over year improvements that's nice to
have but doesn't constitute like someone
like me or you yeah or anyone with any
like probably last three years apple
watch needing to upgrade if you're
upgrading this is nice that you get a
couple new features if you don't need to
upgrade there's no point in doing this
yeah it's all about the bigger screen
they didn't mention the chip on stage at
all they didn't mention it
found on reddit it's literally the it's
not even like a different name it is the
exact same chip i would believe that
um having a bigger brighter screen is of
course nice on any gadget anytime
there's a refresh especially something
that's in outside so often yeah but
aside from that yeah i i think
personally i would be very happy to
stick with the series six um the one
other thing i think
oh we're trying to figure out oh yeah
well we mentioned the charging that was
the other thing so they're keeping
around the series three and the s e yeah
so series four five six and s uh four
five and six yeah
are so similar that they might as well
not exist yeah so we've got we've got
the se which is like the budget cheaper
version and then we've got the three
which is the much less features and many
less sensors even cheaper entry-level
apple watch it lives keeps living and i
think just kind of unfortunately the
biggest news with series 7 is just that
it wasn't the redesign that everyone
kind of it was one of those things where
it's leaks and it's renders and we all
tell each other not to get excited by
them but this is one where it felt like
a couple more leakers were all kind of
on the same page and it just was not
even if anything it was supposed to be a
boxier design kind of like what ipad
mini did and it wound up actually
becoming curvier with the glass okay so
in hindsight now that we have the new
design are you happy that it's not
squared or did you want to pretty square
about i think the renders looked cool
but either way it's still not all right
we know that answer adam you saw the
rumored squared off apple watch
versus this new big screen curvy one we
got do you like the actual one we got
better or would you rather have had the
square one
um i think i would rather have had the
square one
if they were going to keep it
this
design i feel like they should have
added a functionality that
differentiated it other than like a
bigger screen they didn't have much
functionality to add i mean this we're
going to talk about this with the iphone
pretty shortly but it's a it's the same
watch with a better screen are we just
at a point where the apple watch is
popular enough that you just can't skip
a year on it
it's popular enough that you can't like
it it's just like they're not gonna ever
just let it sit for two years and then
do a bigger update yeah no they're gonna
make a new one every single year yeah
and i'm sure there's little things like
the faster charging like that's kind of
nice there's little things that they
probably adjust every year the
technology gets better enough that they
can probably add like a slightly bigger
battery next year and honestly that's
fine if they never change anything else
about this watch but eventually other
stuff's going to catch up right
eventually you got to make moves so
maybe it's a redesign in the future
someday but as of today
um it's it's looking pretty similar to
the series yeah no problem there okay
then the iphones iphone 13 13 mini 13
pro and 13 pro max
pretty solid lineup um very similar
again to the 12 but i'm going to talk
about some of the things that are more
important so
a15 bionic chip in all of these phones
it's got a 5 core gpu in the pro phones
4 core gpu and the smaller phones or the
13 and 13 mini and then everything else
is the same with the specs a new two
high performance cores and four high
efficiency cores in the cpu
and uh it's still got ceramic shield
still got ip68 water resistance
still got the squared sides it's got
aluminum on the 13 and 13 mini
surgical grade stainless steel on the 13
pro and 13 pro max perfect what we did
get changed is first of all
the 64 gig model is finally retired and
it starts at 128 gigs of storage
that's something they could have done
last year but there we go they've
finally done it
um the battery life is improved
it's one and a half to two and a half
hours longer depending on which model
you get
i don't know exactly how that will
translate to real world use because they
keep saying like all-day battery life
yeah that's all we need to retire that
phrase well apple's used it forever and
yeah everyone uses it's not just apple
yeah it doesn't really mean anything
substantial until we test the phone but
i like that they're quoting longer
battery life and not sure mini needed it
for sure the mini needed it and these
phones are actually slightly thicker and
slightly heavier to support an actually
larger battery capacity okay not
substantially larger but it's it's not
smaller
so that's cool the screens are brighter
um a thousand to 1200 nits of peak hdr
brightness a thousand hits or 800 nits
for regular use on the 13 and 13 mini i
like having brighter screens obviously
it's the same resolution but what's more
important about these screens is the pro
phones
now have promotion they now have a
variable refresh rate up to 820 hertz
that's something they should have done a
year ago yes but it's here
okay i'd say biggest announcement of the
timing this is the biggest new feature
it was the one we were the most excited
about and it was funny because we talked
about leaks before and 120 hertz is
something that leakers have claimed is
going to happen for a while now as far
as i'm concerned and yeah i didn't see
much speculation of it this year yeah we
it there's been so many other phones to
have 120 hertz for so long we just kind
of forgot about it and stopped thinking
they would do it
uh but yeah they finally done it and
it's interesting because these are not
these are oled phones and oled screens
where the ipad pro is still an lcd still
a backlit screen so that'll be
interesting to see if it looks even
better than the ipad pro
um but yeah that'll be that'll be good
to see so this is this is where we're
going to find out how much of a
difference 120 hertz really matters
because as much as i've said in the past
like guys you got to see 120 hertz in
person it looks so much better i can't
believe apple's stealing selling a
thousand dollar phone at 60 hertz and
everyone always goes well
nobody really cares and no one notices
the difference to 120 this is where
we're going to find out there's going to
be 120 hertz iphone in the store next to
a 60hz iphone
will anybody see the difference
i'm still interested on if
in that scenario if someone would be on
both of them and
not see the difference but choose to
spend more money because of the
difference right well they see the
difference and then go wow so the more
expensive one's a thousand dollars and
the 60 hertz one's 800 do i want to make
that jump
yeah and i
you know i
obviously would i think for the majority
of people listening to this podcast
right now that's a jump they're willing
to take i personally would do it i
recommend it but i do still i mean one
one person who says it all the time is
uh john morrison tld today and i
don't disagree with his
opinion on any of it i don't think the
majority of iphone users
care about the 120 hertz the the
majority outside of our bubble that we
live in who are going to a carrier
service or just getting a new iphone but
now like you said now that they're going
to have it will that change will that
change will they even really know what
the difference is or just other phones
gonna feel slow and then they'll learn
about what it is and it'll become more
of a standard um that's kind of how i
see it yeah and i i think one of my best
litmus tests of like a new feature is if
people in the real world like care or
talk about it at all and
you're not gonna see a lot of people
talking about 120 hertz but i think when
you see the new pro iphones start to
arrive in people's hands and people
start to go whoa this feels way smoother
that's what they're going to say my
phone feels so much faster than my last
time way faster way smoother way more
responsive and when all these apps are
going to take advantage of it there's
going to be 120 hertz games and 120
hertz web browsing and just scrolling
around and going through things and
apple of course has talked a big game
about how they've optimized every little
animation in ios because that's what
they do they've had this to be fair
they've had the smoothest 60 hertz
phones out i will give them that and
that that actually gives me more
confidence that the difference to 120
will be that much more well taken
advantage of and they've done it on ipad
also so like this isn't their first
rodeo on a mobile device like this so i
think people are going to start to see
the 120 hertz in person and go whoa
that's a really big difference whereas
if you just told people hey this phone
has 120 hertz do you want it no one
really knows what that means or cares
yeah and so i'm fully agreed with that
like when you say regular people don't
care about 120 hertz i agree it's
because they don't know what it is yeah
so when you show it to them and they go
here's the new iphone it has it and you
show it to those people i think that's
where we're gonna find out how many
people really like it
i agree i don't know if paying 200 extra
for it is going to be the uh initial
jump into it for again the average the
non-techie
yeah i want to look at the numbers i
think if two people saw in a carrier
service and we're playing with them and
that was the only difference they
noticed i don't think they'd be up for
an extra 200 bucks
i think they'd pick paid 200 for a
different color they wanted more before
they would do it for a uh
a smoother experience i hate to agree
but i think that's probably true of a
lot of people it's really hard to think
outside of our mindset sometimes but i i
would guess that that's probably yeah
but i think a lot of people who are
waiting for the iphone to finally get
120 hertz they're amazing it's here
finally
so like i said 7.99 for the iphone 13
6.99 or actually actually those are
prices without carrier activation so
it's
699 or 729 for the 13 mini and 799 or
829 for the 13 and then it's a thousand
or a thousand to 29 for the 13 pro
and then
1099 or 1129 for the 13 pro max
also there's a one terabyte version
there is just so you know that's 15.99
15.99 yeah for the oh pro max only right
pro mac pro and promise pro and pro max
the one terabyte pro max is 15.99 yes
that's the most for the highest yeah
okay so that's the same as a fold three
right pretty close fold three is about
17 18. oh is it real okay yeah um we
also skipped over like i mean design
wise the only real design change we saw
which was in the regular models the 13
and 13 mini which is since there's only
two cameras on the camera bump rather
than have them vertical they're now
diagonal
i think it looks nice i don't
necessarily think it looks better or
worse than the vertical i think it's a
it's a functional change too because the
sensors are so much bigger that that
actually makes space for them
and the primary sensor has now that
larger sensor and that sensor shift
stabilization so remember the 13 the 12
pro max was the only one last year that
had that new big sensor
a lot of space they're bringing that to
all the primary sensors on all the
phones now that's a big deal so they did
have to move it diagonally and it looks
a little different and they probably
thought that would be nice for the new
phone to have a different look but that
is a much bigger better sensor
so they've moved that primary sensor
that bigger sensor to all of the entire
lineup which is pretty sweet and also
there's now faster apertures across the
range i think it's f 1.5 on the main
aperture on the pro so now it's a bigger
sensor and an f 1.5 aperture which is
pretty sweet
but all around wider apertures on the
pro then the regular
and we'll probably also keep an eye on
how that does in low light and there's
no like astro mode or anything crazy
it's just probably going to be
incremental improvements and better
processing and less noise and things
like that but we'll see how that goes
too but that's all just numbers and of
course we'll see better quality i was
most interested in two of the features
they announced and they're both video
features so after the break let's talk
about prores
cinematic mode i'll also talk about some
of the stuff that didn't come to the
iphone
[Music]
all right welcome back let's talk about
the two new video features on the
iphones this year we we saw the numbers
bigger sensors all that's great even
thicker camera bumps they're thicker
this year it feels like when it did that
side profile it's like it has three
separate bumps the bump to get to the
bump the bump for the outside of the
lens and then the bump for like the
glass or something on it it's a triple
mesa it's a whole thing
um but the features we got were pro res
and cinematic mode which should we do
first
cinematic mode's more fun okay
so cinematic mode i i've thought a lot
about cinematic mode since it came out
and uh i'm very curious about how this
will land with regular people it's in
all the phones not just the pros
and it's a it's a new mode that will let
you have a little bit more
fine control over shooting video and
specifically with focusing yeah so i
think apple took a couple looks at okay
we've got bigger sensors there's going
to be more natural blur
and we're going to have a lot of people
shooting video with the iphone as they
usually do let's build into the stock
camera app a little bit of a more
uh
prosumer i'm doing air quotes for audio
listeners a prosumer way of shooting
video specifically with like some focus
racking and some ai intelligent focus
racking and some fake blur we added some
some adjustable blur so it's it's
literally like
portrait mode for video
which is adjustable in post that you can
switch between subjects while you're
shooting yeah since you said you've
thought about this like can i give you
my initial impression on it and then you
can tell me what you think sure later so
when we first saw this
my very first thought was like
every time apple does camera samples
they're like the most beautiful pictures
and videos ever because they have like
really intense rigging and they're in
these like studio situations and like
they're basically showing examples that
you will never ever ever as a consumer
hit apex yeah so when they they showed
this i was like oh focus racking this is
really cool we're all kind of video
nerds here so we think that's really
sweet
i don't think the video sub the way it
showed it off in the examples was great
felt very jumpy sometimes it looked like
it was hunting which is weird because
it's not actually like
racking a focus like normal and just for
some reason it like just fell off from
like we do focus racks all the time it
just didn't quite feel like it obviously
it's much different this is on a phone
yeah using cameras i thought the same
thing
about the same thing so
and then i thought that's kind of what i
thought or i was just like if apple's
not nailing this in their product demos
like this is i think this is going to be
worse there's also a lot of haloing
which is something that their portrait
mode doesn't do quite as bad anymore um
but in video obviously portrait mode
video is new
so you know maybe i'm being too picky
this is for that kind of the average
person they'll probably think it's
really fun but then i immediately
thought i can't think of the average
person that's going to be like super
pumped about this and now i'm back to
like i don't really get it okay so the
one thing that that i thought a lot of
the same stuff when i watched it i was
like this is going to be the greatest
demo of all time and then the first
thing they showed i was like did that
just hunt yeah it was weird but the one
thing that i watched back and thought
more regular people are going to care
about this than i think we think is this
is
right next to all the other modes in the
camera oh like when you scroll through
that and you swipe through okay so
there's photo mode there is portrait
mode
there is video mode and there's
cinematic mode and cinematic mode right
next to video is like the portrait mode
for video and i think a lot of people
are just going to flip it over to this
like almost
by default anyway just to like oh this
is the better video like obviously
portrait mode looks better than a lot of
photos let's just turn on cinematic mode
and we're taking some videos of our
friends and i think they're going to see
a lot of that like shallow depth of
field and they're going to crank up the
bokeh all the way and it's going to be
this big fake blurry background and
they're going to go oh wow the iphone
video looks crazy good with this
cinematic mode
i guarantee we see at least one random
viral video of like fake blur from an
iphone people going look how much better
the iphone video is than everyone else
even though you've been able to do this
on other phones for a while yeah so
that's one thing i saw wait can i just
interject right there is like you just
made me think of an another issue this
could be doing to somebody is if you
think people are gonna go to cinematic
as default how many random videos are
people gonna have where it's like
they're taking a video of their friend
and someone walks by in the background
and it it hunts to focus that and now
their video they have is out of focus on
the subject trees they don't know how to
use it correctly yeah we'll want to see
how it works but yeah i can see that
happening now i just think the the this
is going to be more geared toward the
average person and i think people who
want to shoot like creators like us if i
was to shoot a video on the iphone i'm
either going full auto or i'm using a
third-party app to get way more manual
control yeah and there's kind of no
in-between like you can you can exposure
lock and i think you can can you focus
lock with the current iphone video app i
don't even think you can do that
so that's one of those things like when
you look at people who shoot full-on
videos on their iphones that they've
been waiting for this cinematic mode is
still trying to use ai and like auto
switch for you and add fake blur and
this isn't really something that those
creators are going to want to switch to
they're still going to keep using the
dozens of really good like third-party
camera apps you've already seen for the
iphone especially for video so that's
why i think this is a
a normie app i agree and those same
people who are putting that much effort
into it are probably gonna see that
focus like the way it does it the rack
focus and probably be like i don't like
that they're going to be someone who's
picky enough where they wouldn't enjoy
that whereas yeah there's some there's
phones out there with
manual focus sliders yeah where you can
do manual focus and i think lg brought
that up like lg he's done it sony's done
it i think a motorola phone's already
done it and i literally you'll be able
to like slide to manual focus with focus
peaking in the in the stock camera app
in like the pro mode which is nuts so
that's not what apple's doing yet but i
do see this like people swiping and
going what is portrait mode oh it's
called
totally agree this is the video portrait
mode so that's fine i think we'll see a
lot of people trying that i also want to
go over
my quick segue
of things that they didn't add to the
iphone because this is a notoriously
minor update i think we're on the same
page like you have an iphone 12 you
don't need this it's a small update with
the screen with the slightly we didn't
even say that it's a slightly smaller
notch twenty percent smaller was it
actually did we confirm that it is a
little smaller yeah yeah um you know
they move the earpiece up to the top
it's all the same regular face id array
but okay that's what else is new with
the screen and a little bit better
cameras it's a minor refresh with some
new colors i would say without 120 hertz
and without the just like focus racking
demo there was almost like nothing to
talk about yeah yeah that 120 hertz is
kind of the only buying feature that i'm
concerned about with this maybe a
terabyte but yeah yeah and so i want to
go over just this quick list of things
that we didn't see and how we feel about
them not being added
so uh they didn't get rid of the
lightning port it's still a lightning
port at the bottom i feel like i don't
feel strongly about that yet magsafe is
still the same charging speed is still
the same everything is the same as it
was last year but there were some rumors
of them maybe going full mag safe no
lightning port we're just and we're just
totally past the rumor of ever doing
usb-c right no no one believes that will
ever happen it should be lightning mag
safe to portless okay yeah yeah it would
be hilarious if they switch the iphone
to usb-c after the ipad mini but it's so
much faster than its predecessor they
should have that team talk to the iphone
team
um they didn't add touch id back under
the screen
or any sort of like touch id anywhere
maybe on a button or anything like that
how do you feel about that
i hear a lot of people saying with masks
and everything would make the most sense
i
you know like
that theory makes perfect sense i just
don't know if like they're going to
design a phone based on
the pandemic going on now which is
pretty unknown we've seen it get better
we've seen it get worse so
do you think are you saying just adding
it like how do you feel about adding it
just as not even thinking about the
pandemic um i think it would have been
nice okay i think it'd be nice whether
it's like nice enough to sway some
people yeah we've seen so it's kind of
like one of those features where a bunch
of other manufacturers will try early
versions of it and then once it gets
good enough then apple will hop on okay
and the the real question is what is
good enough like right now we have you
know s21 and oneplus 9 and all these
phones that have the fingerprint reader
under the screen on near the bottom and
it's like a little bigger than your
thumb and you just have to hit the
middle
is good enough like
the bottom half of the screen you touch
anywhere is good enough like
just like a little bigger than your
thumb and just having it be 100 accuracy
every time and it works with water on
your finger what is good enough
and i don't know that apple's
like considering adding face or touch id
back to the phone but when you consider
that you add the pandemic element and
you add the mask element then it's like
it would have been nice
for sure in that situation yeah but we
don't have that either um no faster
charging
that's a funny one because i think by
the time this podcast goes live we also
have a video up on a phone that has a
120 watt fast charging yeah which is
like
apple's just not a big hardware bleeding
edge type company where they they know
what they do well
and massive batteries and 100 watt fast
charging is not one of those things and
it's confusing to me because faster
charging seems like one of the things
that probably isn't that hard to do
everyone's doing it now it's well i
don't think it needs as much
i mean and maybe this is the
the neglige or the ignorance of me and
and knowing about battery tech but it
feels like one of the easier things to
do so it's one of the easier things to
do but in a certain
uh in first of all in bigger phones
even if you do have a big iphone the way
apple does their internals like yeah you
can do split batteries if you want but
then you remove even more capacity from
apple's already pretty small batteries
and
it's a little bit of a battery health
thing too long-term battery health has
always been apple's bias over
battery like overall yeah um i think i
have like a 95 battery health or
something after a year on my iphone 12.
they will go so far as to throttle down
your cpu to continue to maintain your
battery health rather than have your
phone be faster true so uh yeah uh i
think a company like that probably not
gonna do super fast charging anytime
soon but they didn't do anything faster
it's still i think 25 watt peak charging
which is
meh sorry feels like they could go a tad
faster yeah they could go a little
faster i mean
literally 120 watts out there
um so they didn't do that we did not get
higher resolution cameras
and
this is one thing that is uh it's again
it's it would seem really easy to do you
can just add if you can just drop in a
50 megapixel sensor if you want to you
can just drop in 108 megapixel sensor if
you want to apple's done bigger sensors
but they have stuck with 12 megapixels
i don't know that i feel too strongly
about this i was looking forward to
bigger physical sensors because that's a
different look and that's different
capability and more light gathering and
all that there are bigger pixel sizes
now
but i don't know do you
do you find yourself limited at all by a
12 megapixel camera i mean not on iphone
it's just they're so good i mean like we
were just ripping on
even video stuff before different video
things from apple and it's just like
even while we we don't think all of
that's perfect apple still just clearly
has the best video out of any smartphone
out there it's just like kind of not
even close and when it comes to video or
just photos they're still at the top
yeah they started doing something right
they said something on stage that i that
made me kind of wince like is that true
they said i'm pretty sure they said
verbatim they have the most detailed
smartphone video and immediately i was
like well you don't do 8k video so what
do you mean
and to do 8k video you need a 36
megapixel sensor or higher because
that's 36 megapixels per frame
but
apple still with a 12 megapixel sensor
cranks out 4k video and i think if you
put it side by side you would see more
granular small fine detail but if you
just zoom out and watch the videos side
by side the iphone's video still
typically at a high bit rate looks
better also we didn't even mention
prores
but with that high res that impressive
codec prores is really really good codec
it's 422 on the iphone you can shoot 4k
30 prores video straight from the iphone
as long as it's not the 128 gig model as
long as it's not the base model because
that will only do 1080
i guess because
maybe you'd fill up the storage too fast
maybe they're using cheaper storage and
it wouldn't have written fast enough i
think it's probably a little bit of both
um
but i think yeah at the end of the day
you put those videos side by side and
you take the iphone video over the
jello we 8k video from the samsung yeah
so
no faster no high resolution cameras but
that is uh i don't think that's missed
as much as it might be for some other
stuff
also no high resolution displays this is
a smaller thing too it's not like we got
a 2k display on the iphone it's still
like roughly 1080
not a huge problem and i put one more
note down here there's no
astrophotography mode we have like this
incredible night sight mode on the pixel
and we have like night modes on all
these phones now and there's still night
mode on for the first time all of the
cameras on the iphone pro which is sweet
but it doesn't do like this you know
amazing astro like see the stars mode
which uh
i mean you can they did show me some
demos that did have like some faint
stars so maybe they would argue against
that but i still feel like night sight
is like next level yeah they didn't do
that so those are some things that the
iphone didn't do and as a result
minor update
not bad yeah it's funny because all
those would be pretty minor updates also
but just like but when you do minor
updates you want all of them to be
together so it feels like a major use if
you'd stacked all those things if you
had this new iphone update smaller notch
high refresh rate screen and touch id
underneath the display
and the better cameras and a bigger
battery
and fast charging
and high resolution cameras you just
took away their next five iphone
releases yeah that's probably true
but i agree so like if right now if you
were to say if someone had this similar
question to the watch if someone has an
iphone 12 right now and they want to
just upgrade to iphone 13
would you recommend it 12 to 13. yeah no
yeah only i would i mean if you're going
like 12 to 12 pro or 12 to 13 pro maybe
like maybe that jump but if you're just
yeah same phone next generation it's not
worth it yeah but now you add some of
these maybe that would be worth yeah
maybe maybe touch id is that much more
convenient maybe you wanted to take much
better photos um
yeah we'll we'll wait to see when we get
these these phones in hand we should
have reviews of a lot of the stuff
coming up pretty soon which is exciting
we should have them in the studio asap
by the time you see this um
hopefully yeah and i guess we'll we'll
get right to reviewing them because i
want to see what that 120 hertz looks
like i want to see what those new photos
and videos look like and i want to see
if that cinematic mode is as spicy as i
said yeah we need to do some fun
cinematic mode tests we'll be trying it
out so stay tuned for all that stuff on
the channel but in the meantime that's
been our apple podcast that's all we
talked about today is apple stuff it's a
lot a lot of stuff going on this week
either way
thanks for watching this episode we'll
catch you next week in the next one
peace
waveform was produced by adam molina we
are partnered with vox media and our
intro outro music was created by vayne